to be born Bloaters) that Yarmouth was, upon the whole, the finest place
in the universe.

"Here's my Am!" screamed Peggotty, "growed out of knowledge!"

He was waiting for us, in fact, at the public-house; and asked me
how I found myself, like an old acquaintance. I did not feel, at first,
that I knew him as well as he knew me, because he had never
come to our house since the night I was born, and naturally he had the
advantage of me. But our intimacy was much advanced by his taking
me on his back to carry me home. He was, now, a huge, strong fellow
of six feet high, broad in proportion, and round-shouldered; but with
a simpering boy's face and curly light hair that gave him quite a sheepish
look. He was dressed in a canvass jacket, and a pair of such very
stiff trousers that they would have stood quite as well alone, without
any legs in them. And you couldn't so properly have said he wore a
hat, as that he was covered in a-top, like an old building, with something
pitchy.

Ham carrying me on his back and a small box of ours under his
arm, and Peggotty carrying another small box of ours, we turned down
lanes bestrewn with bits of chips and little hillocks of sand, and went
past gas-works, rope-walks, boat-builders' yards, ship-wrights' yards,
ship-breakers' yards, caulkers' yards, riggers' lofts, smiths' forges, and a
great litter of such places, until we came out upon the dull waste I
had already seen at a distance; when Ham said,

"Yon's our house, Mas'r Davy!"

I looked in all directions, as far as I could stare over the wilderness,
and away at the sea, and away at the river, but no house could {{I}} make
out. There was a black barge, or some other kind of superannuated boat,
not far off, high and dry on the ground, with an iron funnel sticking out
of it for a chimney and smoking very cosily; but nothing else in the way
of a habitation that was visible to {{me}}.

"That's not it?" said I. "That ship-looking thing?"

"That's it, Mas'r Davy," returned Ham.

If it had been Aladdin's palace, roc's egg and all, I suppose I could
not have been more charmed with the romantic idea of living in it.
There was a delightful door cut in the side, and it was roofed in, and
there were little windows in it; but the wonderful charm of it was, that
it was a real boat which had no doubt been upon the water hundreds
of times, and which had never been intended to be lived in, on dry
land. That was the captivation of it to me. If it had ever been
meant to be lived in, I might have thought it small, or inconvenient, or
lonely; but never having been designed for any such use, it became a
perfect abode.

It was beautifully clean inside, and as tidy as possible. There was a
table, and a Dutch clock, and a chest of drawers, and on the chest of
drawers there was a tea-tray with a painting on it of a lady with a parasol,
taking a walk with a military-looking child who was trundling a hoop.
The tray was kept from tumbling down, by a bible; and the tray, if it
had tumbled down, would have smashed a quantity of cups and saucers
and a teapot that were grouped around the book. On the walls
