
This was all the consolation that her firmness administered to me. I
do not doubt that she had a choice pleasure in exhibiting what she called
her self-command, and her firmness, and her strength of mind, and her
common sense, and the whole diabolical catalogue of her unamiable
qualities, on such an occasion. She was particularly proud of her turn for
business; and she showed it now in reducing everything to pen and ink,
and being moved by nothing. All the rest of that day, and from morning
to night afterwards, she sat at that desk; scratching composedly with a
hard pen, speaking in the same imperturbable whisper to everybody;
never relaxing a muscle of her face, or softening a tone of her voice, or
appearing with an atom of her dress astray.

Her brother took a book sometimes, but never read it that I saw. He
would open it and look at it as if he were reading, but would remain for a
whole hour without turning the leaf, and then put it down and walk to
and fro in the room. I used to sit with folded hands watching him, and
counting his footsteps, hour after hour. He very seldom spoke to her,
and never to me. He seemed to be the only restless thing, except the
clocks, in the whole motionless house.

In these days before the funeral, I saw but little of Peggotty, except
that, in passing up or down stairs, I always found her close to the room
where my mother and her baby lay, and except that she came to me every
night, and sat by my bed’s head while I went to sleep. A day or two
before the burial--I think it was a day or two before, but I am conscious
of confusion in my mind about that heavy time, with nothing to mark its
progress--she took me into the room. I only recollect that underneath
some white covering on the bed, with a beautiful cleanliness and freshness
all around it, there seemed to me to lie embodied the solemn stillness
that was in the house; and that when she would have turned the cover
gently back, I cried: “Oh no! oh no!” and held her hand.

If the funeral had been yesterday, I could not recollect it better. The
very air of the best parlor, when I went in at the door, the bright condition
of the fire, the shining of the wine in the decanters, the patterns of
the glasses and plates, the faint sweet smell of cake, the odour of
Miss Murdstone’s dress, and our black clothes. Mr. Chillip is in the
room, and comes to speak to me.

“And how is Master David?” he says, kindly.

I cannot tell him very well. I give him my hand, which he holds in his.

“Dear me!” says Mr. Chillip, meekly smiling, with something shining
in his eye. “Our little friends grow up around us. They grow out of
our knowledge, ma’am?”

This is to Miss Murdstone, who makes no reply.

“There is a great improvement here, ma’am?” says Mr. Chillip.

Miss Murdstone merely answers with a frown and a formal bend;
Mr. Chillip, discomfited, goes into a corner, keeping me with him, and
opens his mouth no more.

I remark this, because I remark everything that happens, not because
I care about myself, or have done since I came home. And now the bell
begins to sound, and Mr. Omer and another come to make us ready. As
Peggotty was wont to tell me, long ago, the followers of my father to the
same grave were made ready in the same room.

There are Mr. Murdstone, our neighbour Mr. Grayper, Mr. Chillip, and I.
