
“Not at all! You’re right!” said Mr. Omer. “Well, sir, her cousin--you
know it’s a cousin she’s going to be married to?”

“Oh yes,” I replied. “I know him well.”

“Of course you do,” said Mr. Omer. “Well, sir! Her cousin being,
as it appears, in good work, and well to do, thanked me in a very manly
sort of manner for this (conducting himself altogether, I must say, in a way
that gives me a high opinion of him), and went and took as comfortable a
little house as you or I could wish to clap eyes on. That little house is
now furnished, right through, as neat and complete as a doll’s parlor;
and but for Barkis’s illness having taken this bad turn, poor fellow, they
would have been man and wife--I dare say, by this time. As it is, there’s
a postponement.”

“And Emily, Mr. Omer?” I inquired. “Has she become more
settled?”

“Why that, you know,” he returned, rubbing his double chin again,
“can’t naturally be expected. The prospect of the change and separation,
and all that, is, as one may say, close to her and far away from her, both at
once. Barkis’s death needn’t put it off much, but his lingering might.
Anyway, it’s an uncertain state of matters, you see.”

“I see,” said I.

“Consequently,” pursued Mr. Omer, “Em’ly’s still a little down, and
a little fluttered; perhaps, upon the whole, she’s more so than she was.
Every day she seems to get fonder and fonder of her uncle, and more loth
to part from all of us. A kind word from me brings the tears into her
eyes; and if you was to see her with my daughter Minnie’s little girl,
you’d never forget it. Bless my heart alive!” said Mr. Omer, pondering,
“how she loves that child!”

Having so favourable an opportunity, it occurred to me to ask Mr.
Omer, before our conversation should be interrupted by the return of his
daughter and her husband, whether he knew anything of Martha.

“Ah!” he rejoined, shaking his head, and looking very much dejected.
“No good. A sad story, sir, however you come to know it. I never
thought there was harm in the girl. I wouldn’t wish to mention it before
my daughter Minnie--for she’d take me up directly--but I never did.
None of us ever did.”

Mr. Omer, hearing his daughter’s footstep before I heard it, touched me
with his pipe, and shut up one eye, as a caution. She and her husband
came in immediately afterwards.

Their report was, that Mr. Barkis was “as bad as bad could be;” that
he was quite unconscious; and that Mr. Chillip had mournfully said in the
kitchen, on going away just now, that the College of Physicians, the
College of Surgeons, and Apothecaries’ Hall, if they were all called in
together, couldn’t help him. He was past both Colleges, Mr. Chillip said,
and the Hall could only poison him.

Hearing this, and learning that Mr. Peggotty was there, I determined
to go to the house at once. I bade good night to Mr. Omer, and to Mr.
and Mrs. Joram; and directed my steps thither, with a solemn feeling,
which made Mr. Barkis quite a new and different creature.

My low tap at the door was answered by Mr. Peggotty. He was not
so much surprised to see me as I had expected. I remarked this in
