
In the midst of the silence of death, I read thus, from a blotted letter.

“‘When you, who love me so much better than I ever have deserved, even
when my mind was innocent, see this, I shall be far away.’”

“I shall be fur away,” he repeated slowly. “Stop! Em’ly fur away.
Well!”

‘When I leave my dear home--my dear home--oh, my dear home!--in the
morning,’

the letter bore date on the previous night:

‘--it will be never to come back, unless he brings me back a lady. This will
be found at night, many hours after, instead of me. Oh, if you knew how my
heart is torn. If even you, that I have wronged so much, that never can forgive
me, could only know what I suffer! I am too wicked to write about myself.
Oh, take comfort in thinking that I am so bad. Oh, for mercy’s sake, tell uncle
that I never loved him half so dear as now. Oh, don’t remember how affectionate
and kind you have all been to me--don’t remember we were ever to be married--but
try to think as if I died when I was little, and was buried somewhere. Pray
Heaven that I am going away from, have compassion on my uncle! Tell him
that I never loved him half so dear. Be his comfort. Love some good girl, that
will be what I was once to uncle, and be true to you, and worthy of you, and know
no shame but me. God bless all! I’ll pray for all, often, on my knees. If he
don’t bring me back a lady, and I don’t pray for my own self, I’ll pray for all.
My parting love to uncle. My last tears, and my last thanks, for uncle!’”

That was all.

He stood, long after I had ceased to read, still looking at me. At
length I ventured to take his hand, and to entreat him, as well as I could,
to endeavour to get some command of himself. He replied, “I thankee,
sir, I thankee!” without moving.

Ham spoke to him. Mr. Peggotty was so far sensible of {{his}} affliction,
that he wrung his hand; but, otherwise, he remained in the same state,
and no one dared to disturb him.

Slowly, at last, he moved his eyes from my face, as if he were waking
from a vision, and cast them round the room. Then he said, in a low
voice:

“Who’s the man? I want to know his name.”

Ham glanced at me, and suddenly I felt a shock that struck me back.

“There’s a man suspected,” said Mr. Peggotty. “Who is it?”

“Mas’r Davy!” implored Ham. “Go out a bit, and let me tell him
what I must. You doen’t ought to hear it, sir.”

I felt the shock again. I sank down in a chair, and tried to utter some
reply; but my tongue was fettered, and my sight was weak.

“I want to know his name!” I heard said, once more.

“For some time past,” Ham faltered, “there’s been a servant about
here, at odd times. There’s been a gen’lm’n too. Both of ’em belonged
to one another.”

Mr. Peggotty stood fixed as before, but now looking at him.

“The servant,” pursued Ham, “was seen along with--our poor girl--last
night. He’s been in hiding about here, this week or over. He was
