
CHAPTER XLIV.

OUR HOUSEKEEPING.

It was a strange condition of things, the honey-moon being over, and
the bridesmaids gone home, when I found myself sitting down in my own
small house with Dora; quite thrown out of employment, as I may say,
in respect of the delicious old occupation of making love.

It seemed such an extraordinary thing to have Dora always there. It
was so unaccountable not to be obliged to go out to see her, not to have
any occasion to be tormenting myself about her, not to have to write to
her, not to be scheming and devising opportunities of being alone with her.
Sometimes of an evening, when I looked up from my writing, and saw
her seated opposite, I would lean back in my chair, and think how queer
it was that there we were, alone together as a matter of course--nobody's
business any more--all the romance of our engagement put away upon a
shelf, to rust--no one to please but one another--one another to please,
for life.

When there was a debate, and I was kept out very late, it seemed so
strange to me, as I was walking home, to think that Dora was at home!
It was such a wonderful thing, at first, to have her coming softly down to
talk to me as I ate my supper. It was such a stupendous thing to know
for certain that she put her hair in papers. It was altogether such an
astonishing event to see her do it!

I doubt whether two young birds could have known less about keeping
house, than I and my pretty Dora did. We had a servant, of course. She
kept house for us. I have still a latent belief that she must have been
Mrs. Crupp's daughter in disguise, we had such an awful time of it with
Mary Anne.

Her name was Paragon. Her nature was represented to us, when we
engaged her, as being feebly expressed in her name. She had a written
character, as large as a proclamation; and, according to this document,
could do everything of a domestic nature that ever I heard of, and a great
many things that I never did hear of. She was a woman in the prime of
life; of a severe countenance; and subject (particularly in the arms) to a
sort of perpetual measles or fiery rash. She had a cousin in the Life
Guards, with such long legs that he looked like the afternoon shadow of
somebody else. His shell-jacket was as much too little for him as he was
too big for the premises. He made the cottage smaller than it need have
been, by being so very much out of proportion to it. Besides which, the
walls were not thick, and whenever he passed the evening at our house,
we always knew of it by hearing one continual growl in the kitchen.

Our treasure was warranted sober and honest. I am therefore willing
to believe that she was in a fit when we found her under the boiler; and
that the deficient teaspoons were attributable to the dustman.

But she preyed upon our minds dreadfully. We felt our inexperience,
