On making inquiry for him, I learned from the people of the house that
he had not gone out yet, and I should find him in his room up-stairs.

He was sitting reading by a window in which he kept a few plants. The
room was very neat and orderly. I saw in a moment that it was always
kept prepared for her reception, and that he never went out but he thought
it possible he might bring her home. He had not heard my tap
at the door, and only raised his eyes when I laid my hand upon his
shoulder.

“Mas’r Davy! Thankee, sir! thankee hearty, for this visit! Sit ye
down. You’re kindly welcome, sir!”

“Mr. Peggotty,” said I, taking the chair he handed me, “don’t expect
much! I have heard some news.”

“Of Em’ly!”

He put his hand, in a nervous manner, on his mouth, and turned pale,
as he fixed his eyes on mine.

“It gives no clue to where she is; but she is not with him.”

He sat down, looking intently at me, and listened in profound silence
to all I had to tell. I well remember the sense of dignity, beauty even,
with which the patient gravity of his face impressed me, when, having
gradually removed his eyes from mine, he sat looking downward, leaning
his forehead on his hand. He offered no interruption, but remained
throughout perfectly still. He seemed to pursue her figure through
the narrative, and to let every other shape go by him, as if it were
nothing.

When I had done, he shaded his face, and continued silent. I looked
out of the window for a little while, and occupied myself with the plants.

“How do you fare to feel about it, Mas’r Davy?” he inquired at
length.

“I think that she is living,” I replied.

“I doen’t know. Maybe the first shock was too rough, and in the
wildness of her art----! That there blue water as she used to speak
on. Could she have thowt o’ that so many year, because it was to be
her grave!”

He said this, musing, in a low, frightened voice; and walked across
the little room.

“And yet,” he added, “Mas’r Davy, I have felt so sure as she was
living--I have know’d, awake and sleeping, as it was so trew that I should
find her--I have been so led on by it, and held up by it--that I doen’t
believe I can have been deceived. No! Em’ly’s alive!”

He put his hand down firmly on the table, and set his sunburnt face
into a resolute expression.

“My niece, Em’ly, is alive, sir!” he said, stedfastly. “I doen’t know
wheer it comes from, or how ’tis, but {{I am told}} as she’s alive!”

He looked almost like a man inspired, as he said it. I waited for a few
moments, until he could give me his undivided attention; and then proceeded
to explain the precaution, that, it had occurred to me last night,
it would be wise to take.

“Now, my dear friend--” I began.

“Thankee, thankee, kind sir,” he said, grasping my hand in both of his.
