
CHAPTER XLVII.

MARTHA.

We were now down in Westminster. We had turned back to follow
her, having encountered her coming towards us; and Westminster Abbey
was the point at which she passed from the lights and noise of the leading
streets. She proceeded so quickly, when she got free of the two currents
of passengers setting towards and from the bridge, that, between this and
the advance she had of us when she struck off, we were in the narrow
water-side street by Millbank before we came up with her. At that
moment she crossed the road, as if to avoid the footsteps that she heard
so close behind; and, without looking back, passed on even more rapidly.

A glimpse of the river through a dull gateway, where some waggons
were housed for the night, seemed to arrest my feet. I touched my companion
without speaking, and we both forbore to cross after her, and both
followed on that opposite side of the way; keeping as quietly as we could
in the shadow of the houses, but keeping very near her.

There was, and is when I write, at the end of that low-lying street, a
dilapidated little wooden building, probably an obsolete old ferry-house.
Its position is just at that point where the street ceases, and the road begins
to lie between a row of houses and the river. As soon as she came here,
and saw the water, she stopped as if she had come to her destination; and
presently went slowly along by the brink of the river, looking intently at it.

All the way here, I had supposed that she was going to some house;
indeed, I had vaguely entertained the hope that the house might be in some
way associated with the lost girl. But, that one dark glimpse of the river,
through the gateway, had instinctively prepared me for her going no
farther.

The neighbourhood was a dreary one at that time; as oppressive, sad,
and solitary by night, as any about London. There were neither wharves
nor houses on the melancholy waste of road near the great blank Prison.
A sluggish ditch deposited its mud at the prison walls. Coarse grass and
rank weeds straggled over all the marshy land in the vicinity. In one
part, carcases of houses, inauspiciously begun and never finished, rotted
away. In another, the ground was cumbered with rusty iron monsters of
steam-boilers, wheels, cranks, pipes, furnaces, paddles, anchors, diving-bells,
windmill-sails, and I know not what strange objects, accumulated
by some speculator, and grovelling in the dust, underneath which – having
sunk into the soil of their own weight in wet weather – they had
the appearance of vainly trying to hide themselves. The clash and
glare of sundry fiery Works upon the river side, arose by night to disturb
everything except the heavy and unbroken smoke that poured out of their
chimneys. Slimy gaps and causeways, winding among old wooden piles,
with a sickly substance clinging to the latter, like green hair, and the rags
of last year's handbills offering rewards for drowned men fluttering above
