high-water mark, led down through the ooze and slush to the ebb tide.
There was a story that one of the pits dug for the dead in the time of the
Great Plague was hereabout; and a blighting influence seemed to have
proceeded from it over the whole place. Or else it looked as if it had
gradually decomposed into that nightmare condition, out of the overflowings
of the polluted stream.

As if she were a part of the refuse it had cast out, and left to corruption
and decay, the girl we had followed strayed down to the river’s brink,
and stood in the midst of this night-picture, lonely and still, looking at the
water.

There were some boats and barges astrand in the mud, and these
enabled us to come within a few yards of her without being seen. I then
signed to Mr. Peggotty to remain where he was, and emerged from their
shade to speak to her. I did not approach her solitary figure without
trembling; for this gloomy end to her determined walk, and the way in
which she stood, almost within the cavernous shadow of the iron bridge,
looking at the lights crookedly reflected in the strong tide, inspired a
dread within me.

I think she was talking to herself. I am sure, although absorbed in
gazing at the water, that her shawl was off her shoulders, and that she
was muffling her hands in it, in an unsettled and bewildered way, more like
the action of a sleep-walker than a waking person. I know, and never can
forget, that there was that in her wild manner which gave me no assurance
but that she would sink before my eyes, until I had her arm within my grasp.

At the same moment I said “Martha!”

She uttered a terrified scream, and struggled with me with such
strength that I doubt if I could have held her alone. But a stronger hand
than mine was laid upon her; and when she raised her frightened eyes
and saw whose it was, she made but one more effort, and dropped down
between us. We carried her away from the water to where there were
some dry stones, and there laid her down, crying and moaning. In a little
while she sat among the stones, holding her wretched head with both her
hands.

“Oh, the river!” she cried passionately. “Oh, the river!”

“Hush, hush!” said I. “Calm yourself.”

But she still repeated the same words, continually exclaiming, “Oh, the
river!” over and over again.

“I know it’s like me!” she exclaimed. “I know that I belong to it.
I know that it’s the natural company of such as I am! It comes
from country places, where there was once no harm in it--and it
creeps through the dismal streets, defiled and miserable--and it goes
away, like my life, to a great sea, that is always troubled--and I feel that
I must go with it!”

I have never known what despair was, except in the tone of those words.

“I can’t keep away from it. I can’t forget it. It haunts me day and
night. It’s the only thing in all the world that I am fit for, or that’s
fit for me. Oh, the dreadful river!”

The thought passed through my mind that in the face of my companion,
as he looked upon her without speech or motion, I might have
read his niece’s history, if I had known nothing of it. I never saw, in
