any painting or reality, horror and compassion so impressively blended.
He shook as if he would have fallen; and his hand--I touched it with my
own, for his appearance alarmed me--was deadly cold.

"She is in a state of frenzy," I whispered to him. "She will speak
differently in a little time."

I don't know what he would have said in answer. He made some
motion with his mouth, and seemed to think he had spoken; but he had
only pointed to her with his outstretched hand.

A new burst of crying came upon her now, in which she once more hid
her face among the stones, and lay before us, a prostrate image of humiliation
and ruin. Knowing that this state must pass, before we could
speak to her with any hope, I ventured to restrain him when he would
have raised her, and we stood by in silence until she became more
tranquil.

"Martha," said I then, leaning down, and helping her to rise--she
seemed to want to rise as if with the intention of going away, but she was
weak, and leaned against a boat. "Do you know who this is, who is
with me?"

She said faintly, "Yes."

"Do you know that we have followed you a long way to-night?"

She shook her head. She looked neither at him nor at me, but stood
in a humbled attitude, holding her bonnet and shawl in one hand, without
appearing conscious of them, and pressing the other, clenched, against
her forehead.

"Are you composed enough," said I, "to speak on the subject which
so interested you--I hope Heaven may remember it!--that snowy
night?"

Her sobs broke out afresh, and she murmured some inarticulate thanks
to me for not having driven her away from the door.

"I want to say nothing for myself," she said, after a few moments.
"I am bad, I am lost. I have no hope at all. But tell him, sir," she
had shrunk away from him, "if you don't feel too hard to me to do it,
that I never was in any way the cause of his misfortune."

"It has never been attributed to you," I returned, earnestly responding
to her earnestness.

"It was you, if I don't deceive myself," she said, in a broken voice,
"that came into the kitchen, the night she took such pity on me; was
so gentle to me; didn't shrink away from me like all the rest, and gave
me such kind help! Was it you, sir?"

"It was," said I.

"I should have been in the river long ago," she said, glancing at it
with a terrible expression, "if any wrong to her had been upon my mind.
I never could have kept out of it a single winter's night, if I had not been
free of any share in that!"

"The cause of her flight is too well understood," I said. "You are
innocent of any part in it, we thoroughly believe,--we know."

"Oh I might have been much the better for her, if I had had a better
heart!" exclaimed the girl, with most forlorn regret; "for she was
always good to me! She never spoke a word to me but what was pleasant
and right. Is it likely I would try to make her what I am myself, knowing
