what I am myself, so well! When I lost everything that makes life
dear, the worst of all my thoughts was that I was parted for ever from
her!”

Mr. Peggotty, standing with one hand on the gunwale of the boat, and
his eyes cast down, put his disengaged hand before his face.

“And when I heard what had happened before that snowy night, from
some belonging to our town,” cried Martha, “the bitterest thought in all
my mind was, that the people would remember she once kept company
with me, and would say I had corrupted her! When, Heaven knows, I
would have died to have brought back her good name!”

Long unused to any self-control, the piercing agony of her remorse
and grief was terrible.

“To have died, would not have been much – what can I say? – I would
have lived!” she cried. “I would have lived to be old, in the wretched
streets – and to wander about, avoided, in the dark – and to see the day
break on the ghastly lines of houses, and remember how the same sun
used to shine into my room, and wake me once – I would have done even
that, to save her!”

Sinking on the stones, she took some in each hand, and clenched
them up, as if she would have ground them. She writhed into some new
posture constantly: stiffening her arms, twisting them before her face,
as though to shut out from her eyes the little light there was, and drooping
her head, as if it were heavy with insupportable recollections.

“What shall I ever do!” she said, fighting thus with her despair.
“How can I go on as I am, a solitary curse to myself, a living disgrace
to every one I come near!” Suddenly she turned to my companion.
“Stamp upon me, kill me! When she was your pride, you would
have thought I had done her harm if I had brushed against her in the
street. You can’t believe – why should you? – a syllable that comes out
of my lips. It would be a burning shame upon you, even now, if she
and I exchanged a word. I don’t complain. I don’t say she and I are
alike – I know there is a long, long way between us. I only say, with all
my guilt and wretchedness upon my head, that I am grateful to her from
my soul, and love her. Oh don’t think that all the power I had of loving
anything, is quite worn out! Throw me away, as all the world does.
Kill me for being what I am, and having ever known her; but don’t
think that of me!”

He looked upon her, while she made this supplication, in a wild
distracted manner; and, when she was silent, gently raised her.

“Martha,” said Mr. Peggotty, “God forbid as I should judge you.
Forbid as I, of all men, should do that, my girl! You doen’t know
half the change that’s come, in course of time, upon me, when you
think it likely. Well!” he paused a moment, then went on. “You
doen’t understand how ’tis that this here gentleman and me has wished to
speak to you. You doen’t understand what ’tis we has afore us.
Listen now!”

His influence upon her was complete. She stood, shrinkingly, before
him, as if she were afraid to meet his eyes; but her passionate sorrow was
quite hushed and mute.

“If you heerd,” said Mr. Peggotty, “owt of what passed between
