Mas’r Davy and me, th’ night when it snew so hard, you know as I have
been – wheer not – fur to seek my dear niece. My dear niece,” he repeated
steadily. “Fur she’s more dear to me now, Martha, than ever she was
dear afore.”

She put her hands before her face; but otherwise remained quiet.

“I have heerd her tell,” said Mr. Peggotty, “as you was early left
fatherless and motherless, with no friend fur to take, in a rough seafaring-way,
their place. Maybe you can guess that if you’d had such a friend,
you’d have got into a way of being fond of him in course of time, and
that my niece was kiender daughter-like to me.”

As she was silently trembling, he put her shawl carefully about her,
taking it up from the ground for that purpose.

“Whereby,” said he, “I know, both as she would go to the wureld’s
furdest end with me, if she could once see me again; and that she would
fly to the wureld’s furdest end to keep off seeing me. For though she ain’t
no call to doubt my love, and doen’t – and doen’t,” he repeated, with a
quiet assurance of the truth of what he said, “there’s shame steps in,
and keeps betwixt us.”

I read, in every word of his plain impressive way of delivering himself,
new evidence of his having thought of this one topic, in every feature it
presented.

“According to our reckoning,” he proceeded, “Mas’r Davy’s here, and
mine, she is like, one day, to make her own poor solitary course to
London. We believe – Mas’r Davy, me, and all of us – that you are as
innocent of everything that has befel her, as the unborn child. You’ve
spoke of her being pleasant, kind, and gentle to you. Bless her, I knew
she was! I knew she always was, to all. You’re thankful to her, and
you love her. Help us all you can to find her, and may Heaven reward
you!”

She looked at him hastily, and for the first time, as if she were doubtful
of what he had said.

“Will you trust me?” she asked, in a low voice of astonishment.

“Full and free!” said Mr. Peggotty.

“To speak to her, if I should ever find her; shelter her, if I have any
shelter to divide with her; and then, without her knowledge, come to
you, and bring you to her?” she asked hurriedly.

We both replied together, “Yes!”

She lifted up her eyes, and solemnly declared that she would devote
herself to this task, fervently and faithfully. That she would never waver
in it, never be diverted from it, never relinquish it, while there was any
chance of hope. If she were not true to it, might the object she now had
in life, which bound her to something devoid of evil, in its passing away
from her, leave her more forlorn and more despairing, if that were possible,
than she had been upon the river’s brink that night; and then might all
help, human and Divine, renounce her evermore!

She did not raise her voice above her breath, or address us, but said
this to the night sky; then stood profoundly quiet, looking at the gloomy
water.

We judged it expedient, now, to tell her all we knew; which I
recounted at length. She listened with great attention, and with a face
