that often changed, but had the same purpose in all its varying expressions.
Her eyes occasionally filled with tears, but those she repressed. It seemed
as if her spirit were quite altered, and she could not be too quiet.

She asked, when all was told, where we were to be communicated with,
if occasion should arise. Under a dull lamp in the road, I wrote our two
addresses on a leaf of my pocket-book, which I tore out and gave to her,
and which she put in her poor bosom. I asked her where she lived herself.
She said, after a pause, in no place long. It were better not to know.

Mr. Peggotty suggesting to me, in a whisper, what had already occurred
to myself, I took out my purse; but I could not prevail upon her to
accept any money, nor could I exact any promise from her that she would
do so at another time. I represented to her that Mr. Peggotty could not
be called, for one in his condition, poor; and that the idea of her engaging
in this search, while depending on her own resources, shocked us both.
She continued steadfast. In this particular, his influence upon her was
equally powerless with mine. She gratefully thanked him, but remained
inexorable.

“There may be work to be got,” she said. “I’ll try.”

“At least take some assistance,” I returned, “until you have tried.”

“I could not do what I have promised, for money,” she replied. “I
could not take it, if I was starving. To give me money would be to take
away your trust, to take away the object that you have given me, to take
away the only certain thing that saves me from the river.”

“In the name of the great Judge,” said I, “before whom you and all
of us must stand at his dread time, dismiss that terrible idea! We can
all do some good, if we will.”

She trembled, and her lip shook, and her face was paler, as she answered:

“It has been put in your hearts, perhaps, to save a wretched creature for
repentance. I am afraid to think so; it seems too bold. If any good
should come of me, I might begin to hope; for nothing but harm has ever
come of my deeds yet. I am to be trusted, for the first time in a long
while, with my miserable life, on account of what you have given me to
try for. I know no more, and I can say no more.”

Again she repressed the tears that had begun to flow; and, putting out
her trembling hand, and touching Mr. Peggotty, as if there were some
healing virtue in him, went away along the desolate road. She had been
ill, probably for a long time. I observed, upon that closer opportunity
of observation, that she was worn and haggard, and that her sunken eyes
expressed privation and endurance.

We followed her at a short distance, our way lying in the same direction,
until we came back into the lighted and populous streets. I
had such implicit confidence in her declaration, that I then put it to Mr.
Peggotty, whether it would not seem, in the onset, like distrusting her, to
follow her any further. He being of the same mind, and equally reliant on
her, we suffered her to take her own road, and took ours, which was towards
Highgate. He accompanied me a good part of the way; and when
we parted, with a prayer for the success of this fresh effort, there was a
new and thoughtful compassion in him that I was at no loss to interpret.

It was midnight when I arrived at home. I had reached my own gate,
and was standing listening for the deep bell of Saint Paul’s, the sound of
