which I thought had been borne towards me among the multitude of
striking clocks, when I was rather surprised to see that the door of my
aunt’s cottage was open, and that a faint light in the entry was shining
out across the road.

Thinking that my aunt might have relapsed into one of her old alarms,
and might be watching the progress of some imaginary conflagration in
the distance, I went to speak to her. It was with very great surprise that
I saw a man standing in her little garden.

He had a glass and bottle in his hand, and was in the act of drinking.
I stopped short, among the thick foliage outside, for the moon was up
now, though obscured; and I recognised the man whom I had once supposed
to be a delusion of Mr. Dick’s, and had once encountered with my
aunt in the streets of the city.

He was eating as well as drinking, and seemed to eat with a hungry
appetite. He seemed curious regarding the cottage, too, as if it were the
first time he had seen it. After stooping to put the bottle on the ground,
he looked up at the windows, and looked about; though with a covert
and impatient air, as if he was anxious to be gone.

The light in the passage was obscured for a moment, and my aunt came
out. She was agitated, and told some money into his hand. I heard it
chink.

“What’s the use of this?” he demanded.

“I can spare no more,” returned my aunt.

“Then I can’t go,” said he. “Here! You may take it back!”

“You bad man,” returned my aunt, with great emotion; “how can
you use me so? But why do I ask? It is because you know how weak
I am! What have I to do, to free myself for ever of your visits, but to
abandon you to your deserts?”

“And why don’t you abandon me to my deserts?” said he.

“{{You}} ask me why!” returned my aunt. “What a heart you must
have!”

He stood moodily rattling the money, and shaking his head, until at
length he said:

“Is this all you mean to give me, then?”

“It is all I {{can}} give you,” said my aunt. “You know I have had
losses, and am poorer than I used to be. I have told you so. Having
got it, why do you give me the pain of looking at you for another moment,
and seeing what you have become?”

“I have become shabby enough, if you mean that,” he said. “I lead
the life of an owl.”

“You stripped me of the greater part of all I ever had,” said my aunt.
“You closed my heart against the whole world, years and years. You
treated me falsely, ungratefully, and cruelly. Go, and repent of it. Don’t
add new injuries to the long, long list of injuries you have done me!”

“Aye!” he returned. “It’s all very fine!--Well! I must do the
best I can, for the present, I suppose.”

In spite of himself, he appeared abashed by my aunt’s indignant tears,
and came slouching out of the garden. Taking two or three quick steps,
as if I had just come up, I met him at the gate, and went in as he came
out. We eyed one another narrowly in passing, and with no favour.
