
"Aunt," said I, hurriedly. "This man alarming you again! Let me
speak to him. Who is he?"

"Child," returned my aunt, taking my arm, "come in, and don't
speak to me for ten minutes."

We sat down in her little parlor. My aunt retired behind the round
green fan of former days, which was screwed on the back of a chair, and
occasionally wiped her eyes, for about a quarter of an hour. Then she
came out, and took a seat beside me.

"Trot," said my aunt, calmly, "it's my husband."

"Your husband, aunt? I thought he had been dead!"

"Dead to me," returned my aunt, "but living."

I sat in silent amazement.

"Betsey Trotwood don't look a likely subject for the tender passion,"
said my aunt, composedly, "but the time was, Trot, when she believed in
that man most entirely. When she loved him, Trot, right well. When
there was no proof of attachment and affection that she would not have
given him. He repaid her by breaking her fortune, and nearly breaking
her heart. So she put all that sort of sentiment, once and for ever in a
grave, and filled it up, and flattened it down."

"My dear, good aunt!"

"I left him," my aunt proceeded, laying her hand as usual on the back
of mine, "generously. I may say at this distance of time, Trot, that I
left him generously. He had been so cruel to me, that I might have
effected a separation on easy terms for myself; but I did not. He soon
made ducks and drakes of what I gave him, sank lower and lower,
married another woman, I believe, became an adventurer, a gambler, and
a cheat. What he is now, you see. But he was a fine-looking man when
I married him," said my aunt, with an echo of her old pride and admiration
in her tone; "and I believed him--I was a fool!--to be the soul of
honor!"

She gave my hand a squeeze, and shook her head.

"He is nothing to me now, Trot,--less than nothing. But, sooner than
have him punished for his offences (as he would be if he prowled about
in this country), I give him more money than I can afford, at intervals
when he reappears, to go away. I was a fool when I married him; and I
am so far an incurable fool on that subject, that, for the sake of what I
once believed him to be, I wouldn't have even this shadow of my idle
fancy hardly dealt with. For I was in earnest, Trot, if ever a woman
was."

My aunt dismissed the matter with a heavy sigh, and smoothed her
dress.

"There, my dear!" she said. "Now, you know the beginning, middle,
and end, and all about it. We won't mention the subject to one another
any more; neither, of course, will you mention it to anybody else. This
is my grumpy, frumpy story, and we'll keep it to ourselves, Trot!"
