
CHAPTER XLVIII.

DOMESTIC.

I labored hard at my book, without allowing it to interfere with the
punctual discharge of my newspaper duties; and it came out and was
very successful. I was not stunned by the praise which sounded in my
ears, notwithstanding that I was keenly alive to it, and thought better of
my own performance, I have little doubt, than anybody else did. It has
always been in my observation of human nature, that a man who has any
good reason to believe in himself never flourishes himself before the faces
of other people in order that they may believe in him. For this reason, I
retained my modesty in very self-respect; and the more praise I got, the
more I tried to deserve.

It is not my purpose, in this record, though in all other essentials it is
my written memory, to pursue the history of my own fictions. They
express themselves, and I leave them to themselves. When I refer to them,
incidentally, it is only as a part of my progress.

Having some foundation for believing, by this time, that nature and
accident had made me an author, I pursued my vocation with confidence.
Without such assurance I should certainly have left it alone, and bestowed
my energy on some other endeavour. I should have tried to find out what
nature and accident really had made me, and to be that, and nothing else.

I had been writing, in the newspaper and elsewhere, so prosperously,
that when my new success was achieved, I considered myself reasonably
entitled to escape from the dreary debates. One joyful night, therefore, I
noted down the music of the parliamentary bagpipes for the last time, and
I have never heard it since; though I still recognise the old drone in the
newspapers, without any substantial variation (except, perhaps, that there
is more of it), all the livelong session.

I now write of the time when I had been married, I suppose, about a
year and a half. After several varieties of experiment, we had given up
the housekeeping as a bad job. The house kept itself, and we kept a
page. The principal function of this retainer was to quarrel with the
cook; in which respect he was a perfect Whittington, without his cat, or
the remotest chance of being made Lord Mayor.

He appears to me to have lived in a hail of saucepan-lids. His whole
existence was a scuffle. He would shriek for help on the most improper
occasions, – as, when we had a little dinner party, or a few friends in the
evening, – and would come tumbling out of the kitchen, with iron missiles
flying after him. We wanted to get rid of him, but he was very much
attached to us, and wouldn’t go. He was a tearful boy, and broke into
such deplorable lamentations, when a cessation of our connexion was
hinted at, that we were obliged to keep him. He had no mother – no
anything in the way of a relative, that I could discover, except a sister,
who fled to America the moment we had taken him off her hands; and he
