became quartered on us like a horrible young changeling. He had a lively
perception of his own unfortunate state, and was always rubbing his eyes
with the sleeve of his jacket, or stooping to blow his nose on the extreme
corner of a little pocket-handkerchief, which he never {{would}} take completely
out of his pocket, but always economised and secreted.

This unlucky page, engaged in an evil hour at six pounds ten per
annum, was a source of continual trouble to me. I watched him as he
grew--and he grew like scarlet beans--with painful apprehensions of the
time when he would begin to shave; even of the days when he would be
bald or grey. I saw no prospect of ever getting rid of him; and, projecting
myself into the future, used to think what an inconvenience he would
be when he was an old man.

I never expected anything less, than this unfortunate’s manner of getting
me out of my difficulty. He stole Dora’s watch, which, like everything
else belonging to us, had no particular place of its own; and, converting
it into money, spent the produce (he was always a weak-minded boy) in
incessantly riding up and down between London and Uxbridge outside
the coach. He was taken to Bow Street, as well as I remember, on
the completion of his fifteenth journey; when four-and-sixpence, and a
second-hand fife which he couldn’t play, were found upon his person.

The surprise and its consequences would have been much less disagreeable
to me if he had not been penitent. But he was very penitent indeed, and
in a peculiar way--not in the lump, but by instalments. For example; the
day after that on which I was obliged to appear against him, he made certain
revelations touching a hamper in the cellar, which we believed to be full
of wine, but which had nothing in it except bottles and corks. We
supposed he had now eased his mind, and told the worst he knew of the
cook; but, a day or two afterwards, his conscience sustained a new twinge,
and he disclosed how she had a little girl, who, early every morning, took
away our bread; and also how he himself had been suborned to maintain
the milkman in coals. In two or three days more, I was informed by the
authorities of his having led to the discovery of sirloins of beef among the
kitchen-stuff, and sheets in the rag-bag. A little while afterwards, he
broke out in an entirely new direction, and confessed to a knowledge of
burglarious intentions as to our premises, on the part of the pot-boy, who
was immediately taken up. I got to be so ashamed of being such a victim,
that I would have given him any money to hold his tongue, or would
have offered a round bribe for his being permitted to run away. It was an
aggravating circumstance in the case that he had no idea of this, but conceived
that he was making me amends in every new discovery: not to
say, heaping obligations on my head.

At last I ran away myself, whenever I saw an emissary of the police
approaching with some new intelligence; and lived a stealthy life until he
was tried and ordered to be transported. Even then he couldn’t be quiet,
but was always writing us letters; and wanted so much to see Dora before
he went away, that Dora went to visit him, and fainted when she found
herself inside the iron bars. In short I had no peace of my life until he
was expatriated, and made (as I afterwards heard) a shepherd of, “up
the country” somewhere; I have no geographical idea where.

All this led me into some serious reflections, and presented our mistakes
