in a new aspect; as I could not help communicating to Dora one evening,
in spite of my tenderness for her.

"My love," said I, "it is very painful to me to think that our want of
system and management, involves not only ourselves (which we have got
used to), but other people."

"You have been silent for a long time, and now you are going to be
cross!" said Dora.

"No, my dear, indeed! Let me explain to you what I mean."

"I think I don't want to know," said Dora.

"But I want you to know, my love. Put Jip down."

Dora put his nose to mine, and said "Boh!" to drive my seriousness
away; but, not succeeding, ordered him into his Pagoda, and sat looking
at me, with her hands folded, and a most resigned little expression of
countenance.

"The fact is, my dear," I began, "there is contagion in us. We infect
everyone about us."

I might have gone on in this figurative manner, if Dora's face had not
admonished me that she was wondering with all her might whether I was
going to propose any new kind of vaccination, or other medical remedy,
for this unwholesome state of ours. Therefore I checked myself, and
made my meaning plainer.

"It is not merely, my pet," said I, "that we lose money and comfort,
and even temper sometimes, by not learning to be more careful; but that
we incur the serious responsibility of spoiling everyone who comes into
our service, or has any dealings with us. I begin to be afraid that the
fault is not entirely on one side, but that these people all turn out ill
because we don't turn out very well ourselves."

"Oh, what an accusation," exclaimed Dora, opening her eyes wide;
"to say that you ever saw me take gold watches! Oh!"

"My dearest," I remonstrated, "don't talk preposterous nonsense!
Who has made the least allusion to gold watches?"

"You did," returned Dora. "You know you did. You said I hadn't
turned out well, and compared me to him."

"To whom?" I asked.

"To the page," sobbed Dora. "Oh, you cruel fellow, to compare your
affectionate wife to a transported page! Why didn't you tell me your
opinion of me before we were married? Why didn't you say, you hard-hearted
thing, that you were convinced I was worse than a transported
page? Oh, what a dreadful opinion to have of me! Oh, my goodness!"

"Now, Dora, my love," I returned, gently trying to remove the handkerchief
she pressed to her eyes, "this is not only very ridiculous of you,
but very wrong. In the first place, it's not true."

"You always said he was a story-teller," sobbed Dora. "And now
you say the same of me! Oh, what shall I do! What shall I do!"

"My darling girl," I retorted, "I really must entreat you to be reasonable,
and listen to what I did say, and do say. My dear Dora, unless we
learn to do our duty to those whom we employ, they will never learn to
do their duty to us. I am afraid we present opportunities to people to do
wrong, that never ought to be presented. Even if we were as lax as we are,
in all our arrangements, by choice--which we are not--even if we liked it,
