and found it agreeable to be so – which we don’t – I am persuaded we should
have no right to go on in this way. We are positively corrupting people.
We are bound to think of that. I can’t help thinking of it, Dora. It is
a reflection I am unable to dismiss, and it sometimes makes me very
uneasy. There, dear, that’s all. Come now! Don’t be foolish!”

Dora would not allow me, for a long time, to remove the handkerchief.
She sat sobbing and murmuring behind it, that, if I was uneasy, why had
I ever been married? Why hadn’t I said, even the day before we went
to church, that I knew I should be uneasy, and I would rather not? If
I couldn’t bear her, why didn’t I send her away to her aunts at Putney,
or to Julia Mills in India? Julia would be glad to see her, and would
not call her a transported page; Julia never had called her anything of
the sort. In short, Dora was so afflicted, and so afflicted me by being in
that condition, that I felt it was of no use repeating this kind of effort,
though never so mildly, and I must take some other course.

What other course was left to take! To “form her mind?” This was
a common phrase of words which had a fair and promising sound, and I
resolved to form Dora’s mind.

I began immediately. When Dora was very childish, and I would
have infinitely preferred to humour her, I tried to be grave – and disconcerted
her, and myself too. I talked to her on the subjects which occupied
my thoughts; and I read Shakespeare to her – and fatigued her to
the last degree. I accustomed myself to giving her, as it were quite
casually, little scraps of useful information, or sound opinion – and she
started from them when I let them off, as if they had been crackers. No
matter how incidentally or naturally I endeavoured to form my little wife’s
mind, I could not help seeing that she always had an instinctive perception
of what I was about, and became a prey to the keenest apprehensions.
In particular, it was clear to me, that she thought Shakespeare a
terrible fellow. The formation went on very slowly.

I pressed Traddles into the service without his knowledge; and whenever
he came to see us, exploded my mines upon him for the edification
of Dora at second hand. The amount of practical wisdom I bestowed
upon Traddles in this manner was immense, and of the best quality; but
it had no other effect upon Dora than to depress her spirits, and make her
always nervous with the dread that it would be her turn next. I found
myself in the condition of a schoolmaster, a trap, a pitfall; of always
playing spider to Dora’s fly, and always pouncing out of my hole to her
infinite disturbance.

Still, looking forward through this intermediate stage, to the time when
there should be a perfect sympathy between Dora and me, and when I
should have “formed her mind” to my entire satisfaction, I persevered,
even for months. Finding at last, however, that, although I had been all
this time a very porcupine or hedgehog, bristling all over with determination,
I had effected nothing, it began to occur to me that perhaps Dora’s
mind was already formed.

On farther consideration this appeared so likely, that I abandoned my
scheme, which had had a more promising appearance in words than
in action; resolving henceforth to be satisfied with my child-wife, and to
try to change her into nothing else by any process. I was heartily tired
