me, broke into a merry laugh, and sprang away to put on Jip’s new
collar.

So ended my last attempt to make any change in Dora. I had been
unhappy in trying it; I could not endure my own solitary wisdom; I
could not reconcile it with her former appeal to me as my child-wife.
I resolved to do what I could, in a quiet way, to improve our proceedings
myself; but, I foresaw that my utmost would be very little, or I must
degenerate into the spider again, and be for ever lying in wait.

And the shadow I have mentioned, that was not to be between us any
more, but was to rest wholly on my own heart? How did that fall?

The old unhappy feeling pervaded my life. It was deepened, if it were
changed at all; but it was as undefined as ever, and addressed me like
a strain of sorrowful music faintly heard in the night. I loved my wife
dearly, and I was happy; but the happiness I had vaguely anticipated,
once, was not the happiness I enjoyed, and there was always something
wanting.

In fulfilment of the compact I have made with myself, to reflect my
mind on this paper, I again examine it, closely, and bring its secrets to the
light. What I missed, I still regarded--I always regarded--as something
that had been a dream of my youthful fancy; that was incapable of realisation;
that I was now discovering to be so, with some natural pain, as
all men did. But, that it would have been better for me if my wife could
have helped me more, and shared the many thoughts in which I had no
partner; and that this might have been; I knew.

Between these two irreconcileable conclusions: the one, that what I
felt, was general and unavoidable; the other, that it was particular to me,
and might have been different: I balanced curiously, with no distinct
sense of their opposition to each other. When I thought of the airy
dreams of youth that are incapable of realisation, I thought of the better
state preceding manhood that I had outgrown; and then the contented
days with Agnes, in the dear old house, arose before me, like spectres of
the dead, that might have some renewal in another world, but never
never more could be reanimated here.

Sometimes, the speculation came into my thoughts, what might have
happened, or what would have happened, if Dora and I had never known
each other? But, she was so incorporated with my existence, that it was
the idlest of all fancies, and would soon rise out of my reach and sight,
like gossamer floating in the air.

I always loved her. What I am describing, slumbered, and half awoke,
and slept again, in the innermost recesses of my mind. There was no
evidence of it in me; I know of no influence it had in anything I said
or did. I bore the weight of all our little cares, and all my projects;
Dora held the pens; and we both felt that our shares were adjusted as
the case required. She was truly fond of me, and proud of me; and
when Agnes wrote a few earnest words in her letters to Dora, of the pride
and interest with which my old friends heard of my growing reputation,
and read my book as if they heard me speaking its contents, Dora read them
out to me with tears of joy in her bright eyes, and said I was a dear old
clever, famous boy.

“The first mistaken impulse of an undisciplined heart.” Those words
