of Mrs. Strong's were constantly recurring to me, at this time; were
almost always present to my mind. I awoke with them, often, in the
night; I remember to have even read them, in dreams, inscribed upon the
walls of houses. For I knew, now, that my own heart was undisciplined
when it first loved Dora; and that if it had been disciplined, it never
could have felt, when we were married, what it had felt in its secret
experience.

"There can be no disparity in marriage, like unsuitability of mind and
purpose." Those words I remembered too. I had endeavoured to adapt
Dora to myself, and found it impracticable. It remained for me to adapt
myself to Dora; to share with her what I could, and be happy; to bear on
my own shoulders what I must, and be happy still. This was the discipline
to which I tried to bring my heart, when I began to think. It
made my second year much happier than my first; and, what was better
still, made Dora's life all sunshine.

But, as that year wore on, Dora was not strong. I had hoped that
lighter hands than mine would help to mould her character, and that a
baby-smile upon her breast might change my child-wife to a woman. It
was not to be. The spirit fluttered for a moment on the threshold of its
little prison, and, unconscious of captivity, took wing.

"When I can run about again, as I used to do, aunt," said Dora, "I
shall make Jip race. He is getting quite slow and lazy."

"I suspect, my dear," said my aunt, quietly working by her side, "he
has a worse disorder than that. Age, Dora."

"Do you think he is old?" said Dora, astonished. "Oh, how strange
it seems that Jip should be old!"

"It's a complaint we are all liable to, Little One, as we get on in
life," said my aunt, cheerfully; "I don't feel more free from it than I
used to be, I assure you."

"But Jip," said Dora, looking at him with compassion, "even little
Jip! Oh, poor fellow!"

"I dare say he'll last a long time yet, Blossom," said my aunt, patting
Dora on the cheek, as she leaned out of her couch to look at Jip, who
responded by standing on his hind legs, and baulking himself in various
asthmatic attempts to scramble up by the head and shoulders. "He
must have a piece of flannel in his house this winter, and I shouldn't
wonder if he came out quite fresh again, with the flowers, in the spring.
Bless the little dog!" exclaimed my aunt, "if he had as many lives as a
cat, and was on the point of losing 'em all, he'd bark at me with his
last breath, I believe!"

Dora had helped him up on the sofa; where he really was defying my
aunt to such a furious extent, that he couldn't keep straight, but barked
himself sideways. The more my aunt looked at him, the more he
reproached her; for, she had lately taken to spectacles, and for some
inscrutable reason he considered the glasses personal.

Dora made him lie down by her, with a good deal of persuasion; and
when he was quiet, drew one of his long ears through and through her
hand, repeating, thoughtfully, "Even little Jip! Oh, poor fellow!"

"His lungs are good enough," said my aunt, gaily, "and his dislikes
are not at all feeble. He has a good many years before him, no doubt.
