But if you want a dog to race with, Little Blossom, he has lived too well
for that, and I’ll give you one.”

“Thank you, aunt,” said Dora, faintly. “But, don’t, please!”

“No?” said my aunt, taking off her spectacles.

“I couldn’t have any other dog but Jip,” said Dora. “It would be
so unkind to Jip! Besides, I couldn’t be such friends with any other
dog but Jip; because he wouldn’t have known me before I was married,
and wouldn’t have barked at Doady when he first came to our house. I
couldn’t care for any other dog but Jip, I am afraid, aunt.”

“To be sure!” said my aunt, patting her cheek again. “You are
right.”

“You are not offended,” said Dora. “Are you?”

“Why, what a sensitive pet it is!” cried my aunt, bending over her
affectionately. “To think that I could be offended!”

“No, no, I didn’t really think so,” returned Dora; “but I am a little
tired, and it made me silly for a moment--I am always a silly little
thing, you know, but it made me more silly--to talk about Jip. He has
known me in all that has happened to me, haven’t you, Jip? And I
couldn’t bear to slight him, because he was a little altered--could
I, Jip?”

Jip nestled closer to his mistress, and lazily licked her hand.

“You are not so old, Jip, are you, that you’ll leave your mistress yet,”
said Dora. “We may keep one another company, a little longer!”

My pretty Dora! When she came down to dinner on the ensuing
Sunday, and was so glad to see old Traddles (who always dined with us
on Sunday), we thought she would be “running about as she used to do,”
in a few days. But they said, wait a few days more; and then, wait a few
days more; and still she neither ran nor walked. She looked very pretty,
and was very merry; but the little feet that used to be so nimble when
they danced round Jip, were dull and motionless.

I began to carry her down stairs every morning, and upstairs every
night. She would clasp me round the neck and laugh, the while, as if
I did it for a wager. Jip would bark and caper round us, and go on
before, and look back on the landing, breathing short, to see that we were
coming. My aunt, the best and most cheerful of nurses, would trudge
after us, a moving mass of shawls and pillows. Mr. Dick would not have
relinquished his post of candle-bearer to any one alive. Traddles would
be often at the bottom of the staircase, looking on, and taking charge of
sportive messages from Dora to the dearest girl in the world. We made
quite a gay procession of it, and my child-wife was the gayest there.

But, sometimes, when I took her up, and felt that she was lighter in my
arms, a dead blank feeling came upon me, as if I were approaching to
some frozen region yet unseen, that numbed my life. I avoided the
recognition of this feeling by any name, or by any communing with
myself; until one night, when it was very strong upon me, and my aunt
had left her with a parting cry of “Good night, Little Blossom,” I sat
down at my desk alone, and cried to think, O what a fatal name it was,
and how the blossom withered in its bloom upon the tree!
