CHAPTER XLIX.

I AM INVOLVED IN MYSTERY.

I received one morning by the post, the following letter, dated Canterbury,
and addressed to me at Doctors' Commons; which I read with
some surprise:

"My dear Sir,

"Circumstances beyond my individual control have, for a considerable
lapse of time, effected a severance of that intimacy which, in the
limited opportunities conceded to me in the midst of my professional
duties, of contemplating the scenes and events of the past, tinged by the
prismatic hues of memory, has ever afforded me, as it ever must continue
to afford, gratifying emotions of no common description. This fact,
my dear sir, combined with the distinguished elevation to which your
talents have raised you, deters me from presuming to aspire to the liberty of
addressing the companion of my youth, by the familiar appellation of
Copperfield! It is sufficient to know that the name to which I do myself
the honor to refer, will ever be treasured among the muniments of our house
(I allude to the archives connected with our former lodgers, preserved by
Mrs. Micawber), with sentiments of personal esteem amounting to affection.

"It is not for one, situated, through his original errors and a fortuitous
combination of unpropitious events, as is the foundered Bark (if he may be
allowed to assume so maritime a denomination), who now takes up the pen
to address you – it is not, I repeat, for one so circumstanced, to adopt the
language of compliment, or of congratulation. That, he leaves to abler
and to purer hands.

"If your more important avocations should admit of your ever tracing
these imperfect characters thus far – which may be, or may not be, as
circumstances arise – you will naturally inquire by what object am I
influenced, then, in inditing the present missive? Allow me to say that
I fully defer to the reasonable character of that inquiry, and proceed to
develope it; premising that it is not an object of a pecuniary nature.

"Without more directly referring to any latent ability that may possibly
exist on my part, of wielding the thunderbolt, or directing the devouring
and avenging flame in any quarter, I may be permitted to observe, in passing,
that my brightest visions are for ever dispelled – that my peace is
shattered and my power of enjoyment destroyed – that my heart is no longer
in the right place – and that I no more walk erect before my fellow man.
The canker is in the flower. The cup is bitter to the brim. The worm is
at his work, and will soon dispose of his victim. The sooner the better.
But I will not digress.

"Placed in a mental position of peculiar painfulness, beyond the
assuaging reach even of Mrs. Micawber's influence, though exercised in
the tripartite character of woman, wife, and mother, it is my intention to
