fly from myself for a short period, and devote a respite of eight-and-forty
hours to revisiting some metropolitan scenes of past enjoyment. Among
other havens of domestic tranquillity and peace of mind, my feet will
naturally tend towards the King's Bench Prison. In stating that I shall
be (D. V.) on the outside of the south wall of that place of incarceration
on civil process, the day after to-morrow, at seven in the evening, precisely,
my object in this epistolary communication is accomplished.

"I do not feel warranted in soliciting my former friend Mr. Copperfield,
or my former friend Mr. Thomas Traddles of the Inner Temple, if
that gentleman is still existent and forthcoming, to condescend to meet
me, and renew (so far as may be) our past relations of the olden time.
I confine myself to throwing out the observation, that, at the hour and
place I have indicated, may be found such ruined vestiges as yet

"Remain,
 "Of
 "A
 "Fallen Tower,
 "{{Wilkins Micawber}}.

"P.S. It may be advisable to superadd to the above, the statement
that Mrs. Micawber is {{not}} in confidential possession of my intentions."

I read the letter over, several times. Making due allowance for
Mr. Micawber's lofty style of composition, and for the extraordinary relish,
with which he sat down and wrote long letters on all possible and impossible
occasions, I still believed that something important lay hidden at the
bottom of this roundabout communication. I put it down, to think
about it; and took it up again, to read it once more; and was still pursuing
it, when Traddles found me in the height of my perplexity.

"My dear fellow," said I, "I never was better pleased to see you.
You come to give me the benefit of your sober judgment at a most opportune
time. I have received a very singular letter, Traddles, from
Mr. Micawber."

"No?" cried Traddles. "You don't say so? And I have received
one from Mrs. Micawber!"

With that, Traddles, who was flushed with walking, and whose hair,
under the combined effects of exercise and excitement, stood on end as if
he saw a cheerful ghost, produced his letter and made an exchange with
me. I watched him into the heart of Mr. Micawber's letter, and returned
the elevation of eyebrows with which he said "'Wielding the thunderbolt,
or directing the devouring and avenging flame!' Bless me,
Copperfield!"--and then entered on the perusal of Mrs. Micawber's
epistle.

It ran thus:

"My best regards to Mr. Thomas Traddles, and if he should still
remember one who formerly had the happiness of being well acquainted
with him, may I beg a few moments of his leisure time? I assure
Mr. T. T. that I would not intrude upon his kindness, were I in any other
position than on the confines of distraction.
