
“Though harrowing to myself to mention, the alienation of Mr. Micawber
(formerly so domesticated) from his wife and family, is the cause of my
addressing my unhappy appeal to Mr. Traddles, and soliciting his best
indulgence. Mr. T. can form no adequate idea of the change in
Mr. Micawber’s conduct, of his wildness, of his violence. It has gradually
augmented, until it assumes the appearance of aberration of intellect.
Scarcely a day passes, I assure Mr. Traddles, on which some paroxysm
does not take place. Mr. T. will not require me to depict my feelings,
when I inform him that I have become accustomed to hear Mr. Micawber
assert that he has sold himself to the D. Mystery and secresy have
long been his principal characteristic, have long replaced unlimited
confidence. The slightest provocation, even being asked if there is anything
he would prefer for dinner, causes him to express a wish for a
separation. Last night, on being childishly solicited for twopence, to buy
‘lemon-stunners’ – a local sweetmeat – he presented an oyster-knife at
the twins!

“I entreat Mr. Traddles to bear with me in entering into these details.
Without them, Mr. T. would indeed find it difficult to form the faintest
conception of my heart-rending situation.

“May I now venture to confide to Mr. T. the purport of my letter?
Will he now allow me to throw myself on his friendly consideration? Oh
yes, for I know his heart!

“The quick eye of affection is not easily blinded, when of the female
sex. Mr. Micawber is going to London. Though he studiously concealed
his hand, this morning before breakfast, in writing the direction-card
which he attached to the little brown valise of happier days, the eagle-glance
of matrimonial anxiety detected d,o,n, distinctly traced. The
West-End destination of the coach, is the Golden Cross. Dare I fervently
implore Mr. T. to see my misguided husband, and to reason with him?
Dare I ask Mr. T. to endeavour to step in between Mr. Micawber and his
agonised family? Oh no, for that would be too much!

“If Mr. Copperfield should yet remember one unknown to fame, will
Mr. T. take charge of my unalterable regards and similar entreaties? In
any case, he will have the benevolence {{to consider this communication strictly
private, and on no account whatever to be alluded to, however distantly, in the
presence of Mr. Micawber}}. If Mr. T. should ever reply to it (which I cannot
but feel to be {{most}} improbable), a letter addressed to M. E., Post Office,
Canterbury, will be fraught with less painful consequences than any
addressed immediately to one, who subscribes herself, in extreme distress,

“Mr. Thomas Traddles’s respectful friend and suppliant,

“{{Emma Micawber}}.”

“What do you think of that letter?” said Traddles, casting his eyes
upon me, when I had read it twice.

“What do you think of the other?” said I. For he was still reading
it with knitted brows.

“I think that the two together, Copperfield,” replied Traddles, “mean
more than Mr. and Mrs. Micawber usually mean in their correspondence – but
I don’t know what. They are both written in good faith, I have no
doubt, and without any collusion. Poor thing!” he was now alluding
