to Mrs. Micawber's letter, and we were standing side by side comparing
the two; "it will be a charity to write to her, at all events, and tell her
that we will not fail to see Mr. Micawber."

I acceded to this, the more readily, because I now reproached myself
with having treated her former letter rather lightly. It had set me thinking
a good deal at the time, as I have mentioned in its place; but my absorption
in my own affairs, my experience of the family, and my hearing
nothing more, had gradually ended in my dismissing the subject. I had
often thought of the Micawbers, but chiefly to wonder what "pecuniary
liabilities" they were establishing in Canterbury, and to recall how shy
Mr. Micawber was of me when he became clerk to Uriah Heep.

However, I now wrote a comforting letter to Mrs. Micawber, in our
joint names, and we both signed it. As we walked into town to post it,
Traddles and I held a long conference, and launched into a number of
speculations, which I need not repeat. We took my aunt into our counsels
in the afternoon; but our only decided conclusion was, that we would be
very punctual in keeping Mr. Micawber's appointment.

Although we appeared at the stipulated place a quarter of an hour
before the time, we found Mr. Micawber already there. He was standing
with his arms folded, over against the wall, looking at the spikes on the
top, with a sentimental expression, as if they were the interlacing boughs
of trees that had shaded him in his youth.

When we accosted him, his manner was something more confused, and
something less genteel, than of yore. He had relinquished his legal suit
of black for the purposes of this excursion, and wore the old surtout and
tights, but not quite with the old air. He gradually picked up more and
more of it as we conversed with him; but, his very eye-glass seemed to
hang less easily, and his shirt collar, though still of the old formidable
dimensions, rather drooped.

"Gentlemen!" said Mr. Micawber, after the first salutations, "you
are friends in need, and friends indeed. Allow me to offer my inquiries
with reference to the physical welfare of Mrs. Copperfield in esse, and
Mrs. Traddles in posse, – presuming, that is to say, that my friend Mr.
Traddles is not yet united to the object of his affections, for weal and
for woe."

We acknowledged his politeness, and made suitable replies. He then
directed our attention to the wall, and was beginning "I assure you,
gentlemen," when I ventured to object to that ceremonious form of
address, and to beg that he would speak to us in the old way.

"My dear Copperfield," he returned, pressing my hand, "your cordiality
overpowers me. This reception of a shattered fragment of the
Temple once called Man – if I may be permitted so to express myself – bespeaks
a heart that is an honor to our common nature. I was about
to observe that I again behold the serene spot where some of the happiest
hours of my existence fleeted by."

"Made so, I am sure, by Mrs. Micawber," said I. "I hope she is
well?"

"Thank you," returned Mr. Micawber, whose face clouded at this reference,
"she is but so-so. And this," said Mr. Micawber, nodding his head
sorrowfully, "is the Bench! Where, for the first time in many revolving
