years, the overwhelming pressure of pecuniary liabilities was not proclaimed,
from day to day, by importunate voices declining to vacate the
passage; where there was no knocker on the door for any creditor to
appeal to; where personal service of process was not required, and
detainers were merely lodged at the gate! Gentlemen," said Mr. Micawber,
"when the shadow of that iron-work on the summit of the brick structure
has been reflected on the gravel of the Parade, I have seen my children
thread the mazes of the intricate pattern, avoiding the dark marks. I
have been familiar with every stone in the place. If I betray weakness,
you will know how to excuse me."

"We have all got on in life since then, Mr. Micawber," said I.

"Mr. Copperfield," returned Mr. Micawber, bitterly, "when I was an
inmate of that retreat I could look my fellow-man in the face, and punch
his head if he offended me. My fellow-man and myself are no longer on
those glorious terms!"

Turning from the building in a downcast manner, Mr. Micawber
accepted my proffered arm on one side, and the proffered arm of Traddles
on the other, and walked away between us.

"There are some landmarks," observed Mr. Micawber, looking fondly
back over his shoulder, "on the road to the tomb, which, but for the
impiety of the aspiration, a man would wish never to have passed. Such
is the Bench in my chequered career."

"Oh, you are in low spirits, Mr. Micawber," said Traddles.

"I am, sir," interposed Mr. Micawber.

"I hope," said Traddles, "it is not because you have conceived a
dislike to the law--for I am a lawyer myself, you know."

Mr. Micawber answered not a word.

"How is our friend Heep, Mr. Micawber?" said I, after a silence.

"My dear Copperfield," returned Mr. Micawber, bursting into a state
of much excitement, and turning pale, "if you ask after my employer as
{{your}} friend, I am sorry for it; if you ask after him as {{my}} friend, I
sardonically smile at it. In whatever capacity you ask after my employer,
I beg, without offence to you, to limit my reply to this--that whatever his
state of health may be, his appearance is foxy: not to say diabolical. You
will allow me, as a private individual, to decline pursuing a subject which has
lashed me to the utmost verge of desperation in my professional capacity."

I expressed my regret for having innocently touched upon a theme that
roused him so much. "May I ask," said I, "without any hazard of
repeating the mistake, how my old friends Mr. and Miss Wickfield are?"

"Miss Wickfield," said Mr. Micawber, now turning red, "is, as she always
is, a pattern, and a bright example. My dear Copperfield, she is the only
starry spot in a miserable existence. My respect for that young lady, my
admiration of her character, my devotion to her for her love and truth,
and goodness!--Take me," said Mr. Micawber, "down a turning, for,
upon my soul, in my present state of mind I am not equal to this!"

We wheeled him off into a narrow street, where he took out his pocket-
handkerchief, and stood with his back to a wall. If I looked as gravely
at him as Traddles did, he must have found our company by no means
inspiriting.

"It is my fate," said Mr. Micawber, unfeignedly sobbing, but doing
