even that, with a shadow of the old expression of doing something genteel;
“it is my fate, gentlemen, that the finer feelings of our nature have become
reproaches to me. My homage to Miss Wickfield, is a flight of arrows in
my bosom. You had better leave me, if you please, to walk the earth
as a vagabond. The worm will settle {{my}} business in double-quick time.”

Without attending to this invocation, we stood by, until he put up his
pocket-handkerchief, pulled up his shirt-collar, and, to delude any person
in the neighbourhood who might have been observing him, hummed a
tune with his hat very much on one side. I then mentioned--not
knowing what might be lost, if we lost sight of him yet--that it would
give me great pleasure to introduce him to my aunt, if he would ride out
to Highgate, where a bed was at his service.

“You shall make us a glass of your own punch, Mr. Micawber,”
said I, “and forget whatever you have on your mind, in pleasanter
reminiscences.”

“Or, if confiding anything to friends will be more likely to relieve
you, you shall impart it to us, Mr. Micawber,” said Traddles, prudently.

“Gentlemen,” returned Mr. Micawber, “do with me as you will!
I am a straw upon the surface of the deep, and am tossed in all directions
by the elephants--I beg your pardon; I should have said the
elements.”

We walked on, arm-in-arm, again; found the coach in the act of
starting; and arrived at Highgate without encountering any difficulties
by the way. I was very uneasy and very uncertain in my mind what to
say or do for the best--so was Traddles, evidently. Mr. Micawber was
for the most part plunged into deep gloom. He occasionally made an
attempt to smarten himself, and hum the fag-end of a tune; but his
relapses into profound melancholy were only made the more impressive by
the mockery of a hat exceedingly on one side, and a shirt-collar pulled up
to his eyes.

We went to my aunt’s house rather than to mine, because of Dora’s not
being well. My aunt presented herself on being sent for, and welcomed
Mr. Micawber with gracious cordiality. Mr. Micawber kissed her hand,
retired to the window, and pulling out his pocket-handkerchief, had a
mental wrestle with himself.

Mr. Dick was at home. He was by nature so exceedingly compassionate
of anyone who seemed to be ill at ease, and was so quick to find
any such person out, that he shook hands with Mr. Micawber, at least half-a-dozen
times in five minutes. To Mr. Micawber, in his trouble, this
warmth, on the part of a stranger, was so extremely touching, that he
could only say, on the occasion of each successive shake, “My dear sir,
you overpower me!” Which gratified Mr. Dick so much, that he went
at it again with greater vigor than before.

“The friendliness of this gentleman,” said Mr. Micawber to my aunt,
“if you will allow me, ma’am, to cull a figure of speech from the vocabulary
of our coarser national sports--floors me. To a man who is struggling
with a complicated burden of perplexity and disquiet, such a
reception is trying, I assure you.”

“My friend Mr. Dick,” replied my aunt, proudly, “is not a common
man.”
