
“That I am convinced of,” said Mr. Micawber. “My dear sir!” for
Mr. Dick was shaking hands with him again; “I am deeply sensible of
your cordiality!”

“How do you find yourself?” said Mr. Dick, with an anxious look.

“Indifferent, my dear sir,” returned Mr. Micawber, sighing.

“You must keep up your spirits,” said Mr. Dick, “and make yourself
as comfortable as possible.”

Mr. Micawber was quite overcome by these friendly words, and by
finding Mr. Dick’s hand again within his own. “It has been my lot,” he
observed, “to meet, in the diversified panorama of human existence, with
an occasional oasis, but never with one so green, so gushing, as the
present!”

At another time I should have been amused by this; but I felt that
we were all constrained and uneasy, and I watched Mr. Micawber so
anxiously, in his vacillations between an evident disposition to reveal something,
and a counter-disposition to reveal nothing, that I was in a perfect
fever. Traddles, sitting on the edge of his chair, with his eyes wide open,
and his hair more emphatically erect than ever, stared by turns at the
ground and at Mr. Micawber, without so much as attempting to put in a
word. My aunt, though I saw that her shrewdest observation was concentrated
on her new guest, had more useful possession of her wits than
either of us; for she held him in conversation, and made it necessary for
him to talk, whether he liked it or not.

“You are a very old friend of my nephew’s, Mr. Micawber,” said my
aunt. “I wish I had had the pleasure of seeing you before.”

“Madam,” returned Mr. Micawber, “I wish I had had the honor of
knowing you at an earlier period. I was not always the wreck you at
present behold.”

“I hope Mrs. Micawber and your family are well, sir,” said my aunt.

Mr. Micawber inclined his head. “They are as well, ma’am,” he desperately
observed after a pause, “as Aliens and Outcasts can ever hope to be.”

“Lord bless you, sir!” exclaimed my aunt, in her abrupt way. “What
are you talking about?”

“The subsistence of my family, ma’am,” returned Mr. Micawber,
“trembles in the balance. My employer——”

Here Mr. Micawber provokingly left off; and began to peel the lemons
that had been under my directions set before him, together with all the
other appliances he used in making punch.

“Your employer, you know,” said Mr. Dick, jogging his arm as a gentle
reminder.

“My good sir,” returned Mr. Micawber, “you recall me. I am
obliged to you.” They shook hands again. “My employer, ma’am – Mr.
Heep – once did me the favor to observe to me, that if I were not
in the receipt of the stipendiary emoluments appertaining to my engagement
with him, I should probably be a mountebank about the country
swallowing a sword-blade, and eating the devouring element. For anything
that I can perceive to the contrary, it is still probable that my children
may be reduced to seek a livelihood by personal contortion, while
Mrs. Micawber abets their unnatural feats, by playing the barrel-organ.”

Mr. Micawber, with a random but expressive flourish of his knife,
