signified that these performances might be expected to take place after he
was no more; then resumed his peeling with a desperate air.

My aunt leaned her elbow on the little round table that she usually
kept beside her, and eyed him attentively. Notwithstanding the aversion
with which I regarded the idea of entrapping him into any disclosure he
was not prepared to make voluntarily, I should have taken him up at this
point, but for the strange proceedings in which I saw him engaged;
whereof his putting the lemon-peel into the kettle, the sugar into the snuffer-tray,
the spirit into the empty jug, and confidently attempting to pour
boiling water out of a candlestick, were among the most remarkable. I
saw that a crisis was at hand, and it came. He clattered all his means
and implements together, rose from his chair, pulled out his pocket-handkerchief,
and burst into tears.

"My dear Copperfield," said Mr. Micawber, behind his handkerchief,
"this is an occupation, of all others, requiring an untroubled mind, and
self-respect. I cannot perform it. It is out of the question."

"Mr. Micawber," said I, "what is the matter? Pray speak out. You
are among friends."

"Among friends, sir!" repeated Mr. Micawber; and all he had
reserved came breaking out of him. "Good heavens, it is principally
because I am among friends that my state of mind is what it is. What
is the matter, gentlemen? What is not the matter? Villany*[Villainy] is the
matter; baseness is the matter; deception, fraud, conspiracy, are the matter;
and the name of the whole atrocious mass is – Heep!"

My aunt clapped her hands, and we all started up as if we were
possessed.

"The struggle is over!" said Mr. Micawber, violently gesticulating
with his pocket-handkerchief, and fairly striking out from time to time
with both arms, as if he were swimming under superhuman difficulties.
"I will lead this life no longer. I am a wretched being, cut off from everything
that makes life tolerable. I have been under a Taboo in that infernal
scoundrel's service. Give me back my wife, give me back my family,
substitute Micawber for the petty wretch who walks about in the boots
at present on my feet, and call upon me to swallow a sword to-morrow,
and I'll do it. With an appetite!"

I never saw a man so hot in my life. I tried to calm him, that we
might come to something rational; but he got hotter and hotter, and
wouldn't hear a word.

"I'll put my hand in no man's hand," said Mr. Micawber, gasping,
puffing, and sobbing, to that degree that he was like a man fighting with
cold water, "until I have – blown to fragments – the – a--detestable – serpent – Heep!
I'll partake of no one's hospitality, until I have – a--moved
Mount Vesuvius – to eruption – on – a--the abandoned rascal – Heep!
Refreshment – a--underneath this roof – particularly punch – would – a--choak[*choke]
me – unless – I had – previously – choaked[*choked] the eyes – out
of the head – a--of – interminable cheat, and liar – Heep! I – a--I'll
know nobody – and – a--say nothing – and – a--live nowhere – until I
have crushed – to – a--undiscoverable atoms – the – transcendent and immortal
hypocrite and perjurer – Heep!"

I really had some fear of Mr. Micawber's dying on the spot. The
