manner in which he struggled through these inarticulate sentences, and,
whenever he found himself getting near the name of Heep, fought his way
on to it, dashed at it in a fainting state, and brought it out with a
vehemence little less than marvellous, was frightful; but now, when he
sank into a chair, steaming, and looked at us, with every possible color in
his face that had no business there, and an endless procession of lumps
following one another in hot haste up his throat, whence they seemed to
shoot into his forehead, he had the appearance of being in the last extremity.
I would have gone to his assistance, but he waved me off, and
wouldn't hear a word.

"No, Copperfield!--No communication--a--until--Miss Wickfield--a--redress
from wrongs inflicted by consummate scoundrel--{{Heep}}!" (I
am quite convinced he could not have uttered three words, but for the
amazing energy with which this word inspired him when he felt it coming.)
"Inviolable secret--a--from the whole world--a--no exceptions--this
day week--a--at breakfast time--a--everybody present--including aunt--a--and
extremely friendly gentleman--to be at the hotel at Canterbury--a--where--Mrs.
Micawber and myself--Auld Lang Syne in chorus--and--a--will
expose intolerable ruffian--{{Heep}}! No more to say--a--or
listen to persuasion--go immediately--not capable--a--bear society--upon
the track of devoted and doomed traitor--{{Heep}}!"

With this last repetition of the magic word that had kept him going at
all, and in which he surpassed all his previous efforts, Mr. Micawber rushed
out of the house; leaving us in a state of excitement, hope, and wonder,
that reduced us to a condition little better than his own. But even then
his passion for writing letters was too strong to be resisted; for while we
were yet in the height of our excitement, hope, and wonder, the following
pastoral note was brought to me from a neighbouring tavern, at which he
had called to write it:--

"Most secret and confidential.

{{My dear Sir}},

I beg to be allowed to convey, through you, my apologies
to your excellent aunt for my late excitement. An explosion of a
smouldering volcano long suppressed, was the result of an internal contest
more easily conceived than described.

I trust I rendered tolerably intelligible my appointment for the morning
of this day week, at the house of public entertainment at Canterbury,
where Mrs. Micawber and myself had once the honor of uniting our
voices to yours, in the well-known strain of the Immortal exciseman
nurtured beyond the Tweed.

The duty done, and act of reparation performed, which can alone
enable me to contemplate my fellow mortal, I shall be known no more.
I shall simply require to be deposited in that place of universal resort,
where

"'Each in his narrow cell for ever laid,
The rude forefathers of the hamlet sleep,'

"--With the plain Inscription,

"{{Wilkins Micawber}}."
