CHAPTER L.

MR. PEGGOTTY'S DREAM COMES TRUE.

By this time, some months had passed, since our interview on the bank
of the river with Martha. I had never seen her since, but she had communicated
with Mr. Peggotty on several occasions. Nothing had come of
her zealous intervention; nor could I infer, from what he told me, that any
clue had ever been obtained, for a moment, to Emily's fate. I confess
that I began to despair of her recovery, and gradually to sink deeper and
deeper into the belief that she was dead.

His conviction remained unchanged. So far as I know – and I believe
his honest heart was transparent to me – he never wavered again, in his
solemn certainty of finding her. His patience never tired. And, although
I trembled for the agony it might one day be to him to have his strong
assurance shivered at a blow, there was something so religious in it, so
affectingly expressive of its anchor being in the purest depths of his fine
nature, that the respect and honor in which I held him were exalted
every day.

His was not a lazy trustfulness that hoped, and did no more. He had
been a man of sturdy action all his life, and he knew that in all things
wherein he wanted help he must do his own part faithfully, and help himself.
I have known him set out in the night, on a misgiving that the
light might not be, by some accident, in the window of the old boat, and
walk to Yarmouth. I have known him, on reading something in the
newspaper that might apply to her, take up his stick, and go forth on a
journey of three or four score miles. He made his way by sea to Naples,
and back, after hearing the narrative to which Miss Dartle had assisted me.
All his journeys were ruggedly performed; for he was always steadfast in
a purpose of saving money for Emily's sake, when she should be found.
In all this long pursuit, I never heard him repine; I never heard him say
he was fatigued, or out of heart.

Dora had often seen him since our marriage, and was quite fond of
him. I fancy his figure before me now, standing near her sofa, with his
rough cap in his hand, and the blue eyes of my child-wife raised, with a
timid wonder, to his face. Sometimes of an evening, about twilight,
when he came to talk with me, I would induce him to smoke his pipe
in the garden, as we slowly paced to and fro together; and then,
the picture of his deserted home, and the comfortable air it used to have
in my childish eyes of an evening when the fire was burning, and the wind
moaning round it, came most vividly into my mind.

One evening, at this hour, he told me that he had found Martha
waiting near his lodging on the preceding night when he came out, and
that she had asked him not to leave London on any account, until he should
have seen her again.

"Did she tell you why?" I inquired.
