
"I asked her, Mas'r Davy," he replied, "but it is but few words as she
ever says, and she on'y got my promise and so went away."

"Did she say when you might expect to see her again?" I demanded.

"No, Mas'r Davy," he returned, drawing his hand thoughtfully down
his face. "I asked that too; but it was more (she said) than she could
tell."

As I had long forborne to encourage him with hopes that hung on
threads, I made no other comment on this information than that I supposed
he would see her soon. Such speculations as it engendered within
me I kept to myself, and those were faint enough.

I was walking alone in the garden, one evening, about a fortnight
afterwards. I remember that evening well. It was the second in Mr.
Micawber's week of suspense. There had been rain all day, and there
was a damp feeling in the air. The leaves were thick upon the trees, and
heavy with wet; but the rain had ceased, though the sky was still dark;
and the hopeful birds were singing cheerfully. As I walked to and fro in
the garden, and the twilight began to close around me, their little voices
were hushed; and that peculiar silence which belongs to such an evening in
the country when the lightest trees are quite still, save for the occasional
droppings from their boughs, prevailed.

There was a little green perspective of trellis-work and ivy at the side
of our cottage, through which I could see, from the garden where I was
walking, into the road before the house. I happened to turn my eyes
towards this place, as I was thinking of many things; and I saw a figure
beyond, dressed in a plain cloak. It was bending eagerly towards me, and
beckoning.

"Martha!" said I, going to it.

"Can you come with me?" she inquired, in an agitated whisper. "I
have been to him, and he is not at home. I wrote down where he was to
come, and left it on his table with my own hand. They said he would
not be out long. I have tidings for him. Can you come directly?"

My answer was, to pass out at the gate immediately. She made a
hasty gesture with her hand, as if to entreat my patience and my silence,
and turned towards London, whence, as her dress betokened, she had
come expeditiously on foot.

I asked her if that were not our destination? On her motioning Yes,
with the same hasty gesture as before, I stopped an empty coach that was
coming by, and we got into it. When I asked her where the coachman
was to drive, she answered "Anywhere near Golden Square! And quick!" – then
shrunk into a corner, with one trembling hand before her face, and
the other making the former gesture, as if she could not bear a voice.

Now much disturbed, and dazzled with conflicting gleams of hope and
dread, I looked at her for some explanation. But, seeing how strongly
she desired to remain quiet, and feeling that it was my own natural inclination
too, at such a time, I did not attempt to break the silence. We
proceeded without a word being spoken. Sometimes she glanced out of
the window, as though she thought we were going slowly, though indeed
we were going fast; but otherwise remained exactly as at first.

We alighted at one of the entrances to the Square she had mentioned,
where I directed the coach to wait, not knowing but that we might have
