some occasion for it. She laid her hand on my arm, and hurried me on to
one of the sombre streets, of which there are several in that part, where
the houses were once fair dwellings in the occupation of single families,
but have, and had, long degenerated into poor lodgings let off in rooms.
Entering at the open door of one of these, and releasing my arm, she
beckoned me to follow her up the common staircase, which was like
a tributary channel to the street.

The house swarmed with inmates. As we went up, doors of rooms
were opened and people's heads put out; and we passed other people on
the stairs, who were coming down. In glancing up from the outside,
before we entered, I had seen women and children lolling at the windows
over flower-pots; and we seemed to have attracted their curiosity, for these
were principally the observers who looked out of their doors. It was a
broad panelled staircase, with massive balustrades of some dark wood;
cornices above the doors, ornamented with carved fruit and flowers; and
broad seats in the windows. But all these tokens of past grandeur were
miserably decayed and dirty; rot, damp, and age, had weakened the
flooring, which in many places was unsound and even unsafe. Some
attempts had been made, I noticed, to infuse new blood into this dwindling
frame, by repairing the costly old wood-work here and there with common
deal; but it was like the marriage of a reduced old noble to a plebeian
pauper, and each party to the ill-assorted union shrunk away from the
other. Several of the back windows on the staircase had been darkened or
wholly blocked up. In those that remained, there was scarcely any glass;
and, through the crumbling frames by which the bad air seemed always to
come in, and never to go out, I saw, through other glassless windows, into
other houses in a similar condition, and looked giddily down into a wretched
yard which was the common dust-heap of the mansion.

We proceeded to the top-story of the house. Two or three times, by
the way, I thought I observed in the indistinct light the skirts of a female
figure going up before us. As we turned to ascend the last flight of stairs
between us and the roof, we caught a full view of this figure pausing for
a moment, at a door. Then it turned the handle and went in.

"What's this!" said Martha, in a whisper. "She has gone into my
room. I don't know her!"

{{I}} knew her. I had recognised her with amazement, for Miss Dartle.

I said something to the effect that it was a lady whom I had seen before,
in a few words, to my conductress; and had scarcely done so, when we
heard her voice in the room, though not, from where we stood, what she
was saying. Martha, with an astonished look, repeated her former action,
and softly led me up the stairs; and then, by a little back door which seemed
to have no lock, and which she pushed open with a touch, into a small
empty garret with a low sloping roof: little better than a cupboard.
Between this, and the room she had called hers, there was a small door of
communication, standing partly open. Here we stopped, breathless with
our ascent, and she placed her hand lightly on my lips. I could only see,
of the room beyond, that it was pretty large; that there was a bed in it;
and that there were some common pictures of ships upon the walls. I
could not see Miss Dartle, or the person whom we had heard her address.
Certainly, my companion could not, for my position was the best.
