
A dead silence prevailed for some moments. Martha kept one hand on
my lips, and raised the other in a listening attitude.

“It matters little to me her not being at home,” said Rosa Dartle,
haughtily, “I know nothing of her. It is you I come to see.”

“Me?” replied a soft voice.

At the sound of it, a thrill went through my frame. For it was Emily’s!

“Yes,” returned Miss Dartle, “I have come to look at you. What?
You are not ashamed of the face that has done so much?”

The resolute and unrelenting hatred of her tone, its cold stern sharpness,
and its mastered rage, presented her before me, as if I had seen her
standing in the light. I saw the flashing black eyes, and the passion-wasted
figure; and I saw the scar, with its white track cutting through
her lips, quivering and throbbing as she spoke.

“I have come to see,” she said, “James Steerforth’s fancy; the girl
who ran away with him, and is the town-talk of the commonest people of
her native place; the bold, flaunting, practised companion of persons like
James Steerforth. I want to know what such a thing is like.”

There was a rustle, as if the unhappy girl, on whom she heaped these
taunts, ran towards the door, and the speaker swiftly interposed herself
before it. It was succeeded by a moment’s pause.

When Miss Dartle spoke again, it was through her set teeth, and with
a stamp upon the ground.

“Stay there!” she said, “or I’ll proclaim you to the house, and the
whole street! If you try to evade {{me}}, I’ll stop you, if it’s by the hair,
and raise the very stones against you!”

A frightened murmur was the only reply that reached my ears. A
silence succeeded. I did not know what to do. Much as I desired to
put an end to the interview, I felt that I had no right to present myself;
that it was for Mr. Peggotty alone to see her and recover her. Would he
never come? I thought impatiently.

“So!” said Rosa Dartle, with a contemptuous laugh, “I see her at
last! Why, he was a poor creature to be taken by that delicate mock-modesty,
and that hanging head!”

“Oh, for Heaven’s sake, spare me!” exclaimed Emily. “Whoever you
are, you know my pitiable story, and for Heaven’s sake spare me, if you
would be spared yourself!”

“If {{I}} would be spared!” returned the other fiercely; “what is there
in common between {{us}}, do you think?”

“Nothing but our sex,” said Emily, with a burst of tears.

“And that,” said Rosa Dartle, “is so strong a claim, preferred by one
so infamous, that if I had any feeling in my breast but scorn and abhorrence
of you, it would freeze it up. Our sex! You are an honour to our sex!”

“I have deserved this,” cried Emily, “but it’s dreadful! Dear, dear
lady, think what I have suffered, and how I am fallen! Oh, Martha, come
back! Oh, home, home!”

Miss Dartle placed herself in a chair, within view of the door, and
looked downward, as if Emily were crouching on the floor before her.
Being now between me and the light, I could see her curled lip, and her
cruel eyes intently fixed on one place, with a greedy triumph.

“Listen to what I say!” she said; “and reserve your false arts for
