your dupes. Do you hope to move {{me}} by your tears? No more than you
could charm me by your smiles, you purchased slave."

"Oh, have some mercy on me!" cried Emily. "Show me some
compassion, or I shall die mad!"

"It would be no great penance," said Rosa Dartle, "for your crimes.
Do you know what you have done? Do you ever think of the home you
have laid waste?"

"Oh, is there ever night or day, when I don't think of it!" cried Emily;
and now I could just see her, on her knees, with her head thrown back,
her pale face looking upward, her hands wildly clasped and held out, and
her hair streaming about her. "Has there ever been a single minute,
waking or sleeping, when it hasn't been before me, just as it used to be in
the lost days when I turned my back upon it for ever and for ever! Oh,
home, home! Oh dear, dear uncle, if you ever could have known the
agony your love would cause me when I fell away from good, you never
would have shown it to me so constant, much as you felt it; but would
have been angry to me, at least once in my life, that I might have had
some comfort! I have none, none, no comfort upon earth, for all of them
were always fond of me!" She dropped on her face, before the imperious
figure in the chair, with an imploring effort to clasp the skirt of her
dress.

Rosa Dartle sat looking down upon her, as inflexible as a figure of
brass. Her lips were tightly compressed, as if she knew that she must
keep a strong constraint upon herself--I write what I sincerely believe--or
she would be tempted to strike the beautiful form with her foot. I
saw her, distinctly, and the whole power of her face and character seemed
forced into that expression.--Would he Never come?

"The miserable vanity of these earth-worms!" she said, when she had
so far controlled the angry heavings of her breast, that she could trust herself
to speak. "{{Your}} home! Do you imagine that I bestow a thought
on it, or suppose you could do any harm to that low place, which money
would not pay for, and handsomely? {{Your}} home! You were a part of the
trade of your home, and were bought and sold like any other vendible
thing your people dealt in."

"Oh not that!" cried Emily. "Say anything of me; but don't visit
my disgrace and shame, more than I have done, on folks who are as
honorable as you! Have some respect for them, as you are a lady, if you
have no mercy for me."

"I speak," she said, not deigning to take any heed of this appeal,
and drawing away her dress from the contamination of Emily's touch,
"I speak of {{his}} home--where I live. Here," she said, stretching out
her hand with her contemptuous laugh, and looking down upon the
prostrate girl, "is a worthy cause of division between lady-mother and
gentleman-son; of grief in a house where she wouldn't have been admitted
as a kitchen-girl; of anger, and repining, and reproach. This piece of
pollution, picked up from the water-side, to be made much of for an hour,
and then tossed back to her original place!"

"No! no!" cried Emily, clasping her hands together. "When he
first came into my way--that the day had never dawned upon me, and
he had met me being carried to my grave!--I had been brought up as
