virtuous as you or any lady, and was going to be the wife of as good a man
as you or any lady in the world can ever marry. If you live in his home
and know him, you know, perhaps, what his power with a weak, vain girl
might be. I don't defend myself, but I know well, and he knows well, or
he will know when he comes to die, and his mind is troubled with it, that he
used all his power to deceive me, and that I believed him, trusted him,
and loved him!"

Rosa Dartle sprang up from her seat; recoiled; and in recoiling struck
at her, with a face of such malignity, so darkened and disfigured by passion,
that I had almost thrown myself between them. The blow, which had no
aim, fell upon the air. As she now stood panting, looking at her with
the utmost detestation that she was capable of expressing, and trembling
from head to foot with rage and scorn, I thought I had never seen such
a sight, and never could see such another.

"{{You}} love him? {{You?}}" she cried, with her clenched hand, quivering
as if it only wanted a weapon to stab the object of her wrath.

Emily had shrunk out of my view. There was no reply.

"And tell that to {{me}}," she added, "with your shameful lips? Why
don't they whip these creatures! If I could order it to be done, I would
have this girl whipped to death."

And so she would, I have no doubt. I would not have trusted her
with the rack itself, while that furious look lasted.

She slowly, very slowly, broke into a laugh, and pointed at Emily with
her hand, as if she were a sight of shame for gods and men.

"{{She}} love!" she said. "That carrion! And he ever cared for her,
she'd tell me? Ha, ha! The liars that these traders are!"

Her mockery was worse than her undisguised rage. Of the two, I
would have much preferred to be the object of the latter. But, when she
suffered it to break loose, it was only for a moment. She had chained it
up again, and however it might tear her within, she subdued it to herself.

"I came here, you pure fountain of love," she said, "to see--as I
began by telling you--what such a thing as you was like. I was curious.
I am satisfied. Also to tell you, that you had best seek that home of
yours, with all speed, and hide your head among those excellent people who
are expecting you, and whom your money will console. When it's all
gone, you can believe, and trust, and love again, you know! I thought
you a broken toy that had lasted its time; a worthless spangle that was
tarnished, and thrown away. But, finding you true gold, a very lady, and
an ill-used innocent, with a fresh heart full of love and trustfulness--which
you look like, and is quite consistent with your story!--I have something
more to say. Attend to it; for what I say I'll do. Do you hear me,
you fairy spirit? What I say, I mean to do!"

Her rage got the better of her again, for a moment; but it passed over
her face like a spasm, and left her smiling.

"Hide yourself," she pursued, "if not at home, somewhere. Let it
be somewhere beyond reach; in some obscure life--or, better still, in
some obscure death. I wonder, if your loving heart will not break, you
have found no way of helping it to be still! I have heard of such means
sometimes. I believe they may be easily found."

A low crying, on the part of Emily, interrupted her here. She stopped,
and listened to it as if it were music.
