
“I am of a strange nature, perhaps,” Rosa Dartle went on; “but
I can’t breathe freely in the air you breathe. I find it sickly. Therefore,
I will have it cleared; I will have it purified of you. If you live here
to-morrow, I’ll have your story and your character proclaimed on the
common stair. There are decent women in the house, I am told; and it
is a pity such a light as you should be among them, and concealed. If,
leaving here, you seek any refuge in this town in any character but your
true one (which you are welcome to bear, without molestation from me),
the same service shall be done you, if I hear of your retreat. Being
assisted by a gentleman who not long ago aspired to the favor of your
hand, I am sanguine as to that.”

Would he never, never come? How long was I to bear this? How
long could I bear it?

“Oh me, oh me!” exclaimed the wretched Emily, in a tone that might
have touched the hardest heart, I should have thought; but there was
no relenting in Rosa Dartle’s smile. “What, what, shall I do!”

“Do?” returned the other. “Live happy in your own reflections!
Consecrate your existence to the recollection of James Steerforth’s tenderness--he
would have made you his serving-man’s wife, would he not?--or
to feeling grateful to the upright and deserving creature who would have
taken you as his gift. Or, if those proud remembrances, and the consciousness
of your own virtues, and the honorable position to which they
have raised you in the eyes of everything that wears the human shape,
will not sustain you, marry that good man, and be happy in his condescension.
If this will not do either, die! There are doorways and dust-heaps
for such deaths, and such despair--find one, and take your flight to
Heaven!”

I heard a distant foot upon the stairs. I knew it, I was certain. It
was his, thank God!

She moved slowly from before the door when she said this, and passed
out of my sight.

“But mark!” she added, slowly and sternly, opening the other door to
go away, “I am resolved, for reasons that I have and hatreds that I
entertain, to cast you out, unless you withdraw from my reach altogether,
or drop your pretty mask. This is what I had to say; and what I say,
I mean to do!”

The foot upon the stairs came nearer--nearer--passed her as she went
down--rushed into the room!

“Uncle!”

A fearful cry followed the word. I paused a moment, and looking in,
saw him supporting her insensible figure in his arms. He gazed for a
few seconds in the face; then stooped to kiss it--oh, how tenderly!--and
drew a handkerchief before it.

“Mas’r Davy,” he said, in a low tremulous voice, when it was covered,
“I thank my Heav’nly Father as my dream’s come true! I thank Him
hearty for having guided of me, in His own ways, to my darling!”

With those words he took her up in his arms; and, with the veiled face
lying on his bosom, and addressed towards his own, carried her, motionless
and unconscious, down the stairs.
