
"Ury, Ury! Be umble, and make terms, my dear!"

"Mother!" he retorted, "will you keep quiet? You're in a fright, and
don't know what you say or mean. Umble!" he repeated, looking at me,
with a snarl; "I've umbled some of 'em for a pretty long time back,
umble as I was!"

Mr. Micawber, genteelly adjusting his chin in his cravat, presently
proceeded with his composition.

"'Second. {{Heep}} has, on several occasions, to the best of my knowledge,
information, and belief'"--

"But {{that}} won't do," muttered Uriah, relieved. "Mother, you keep
quiet."

"We will endeavour to provide something that {{will}} do, and do for
you finally, sir, very shortly," replied Mr. Micawber.

"'Second. {{Heep}} has, on several occasions, to the best of my knowledge,
information, and belief, systematically forged, to various entries, books,
and documents, the signature of Mr. W.; and has distinctly done so in
one instance, capable of proof by me. To wit, in manner following, that
is to say:'"

Again, Mr. Micawber had a relish in this formal piling up of words,
which, however ludicrously displayed in his case, was, I must say, not at
all peculiar to him. I have observed it, in the course of my life, in numbers
of men. It seems to me to be a general rule. In the taking of legal
oaths, for instance, deponents seem to enjoy themselves mightily when
they come to several good words in succession, for the expression of one
idea; as, that they utterly detest, abominate, and abjure, or so forth; and
the old anathemas were made relishing on the same principle. We talk
about the tyranny of words, but we like to tyrannise over them too; we
are fond of having a large superfluous establishment of words to wait
upon us on great occasions; we think it looks important, and sounds
well. As we are not particular about the meaning of our liveries on state
occasions, if they be but fine and numerous enough, so, the meaning or
necessity of our words is a secondary consideration, if there be but a great
parade of them. And as individuals get into trouble by making too great
a show of liveries, or as slaves when they are too numerous rise against
their masters, so I think I could mention a nation that has got into many
great difficulties, and will get into many greater, from maintaining too
large a retinue of words.

Mr. Micawber read on, almost smacking his lips:

"'To wit, in manner following, that is to say. Mr. W. being infirm,
and it being within the bounds of probability that his decease might lead
to some discoveries, and to the downfall of--{{Heep's}}--power over the W.
family,--as I, Wilkins Micawber, the undersigned, assume--unless the
filial affection of his daughter could be secretly influenced from allowing
any investigation of the partnership affairs to be ever made, the said
--{{Heep}}--deemed it expedient to have a bond ready by him, as from
Mr. W., for the before-mentioned sum of twelve six fourteen, two and
nine, with interest, stated therein to have been advanced by--{{Heep}}--to
Mr. W. to save Mr. W. from dishonor; though really the sum was never
advanced by him, and has long been replaced. The signatures to this
instrument, purporting to be executed by Mr. W. and attested by Wilkins
Micawber, are forgeries by--{{Heep}}. I have, in my possession, in his
