it, rocking it to and fro upon her bosom like a child, and trying every
tender means to rouse the dormant senses. No longer afraid of leaving
her, I noiselessly turned back again; and alarmed the house as I
went out.

Later in the day, I returned, and we laid him in his mother's room.
She was just the same, they told me; Miss Dartle never left her; doctors
were in attendance, many things had been tried; but she lay like a statue,
except for the low sound now and then.

I went through the dreary house, and darkened the windows. The
windows of the chamber where he lay, I darkened last. I lifted up the
leaden hand, and held it to my heart; and all the world seemed death and
silence, broken only by his mother's moaning.

CHAPTER LVII.

THE EMIGRANTS.

One thing more, I had to do, before yielding myself to the shock of
these emotions. It was, to conceal what had occurred, from those who
were going away; and to dismiss them on their voyage in happy ignorance.
In this, no time was to be lost.

I took Mr. Micawber aside that same night, and confided to him the
task of standing between Mr. Peggotty and intelligence of the late catastrophe.
He zealously undertook to do so, and to intercept any newspaper
through which it might, without such precautions, reach him.

"If it penetrates to him, sir," said Mr. Micawber, striking himself on
the breast, "it shall first pass through this body!"

Mr. Micawber, I must observe, in his adaptation of himself to a new state
of society, had acquired a bold buccaneering air, not absolutely lawless,
but defensive and prompt. One might have supposed him a child of the
wilderness, long accustomed to live out of the confines of civilisation, and
about to return to his native wilds.

He had provided himself, among other things, with a complete suit of
oil-skin, and a straw-hat with a very low crown, pitched or caulked on the
outside. In this rough clothing, with a common mariner's telescope
under his arm, and a shrewd trick of casting up his eye at the sky as
looking out for dirty weather, he was far more nautical, after his manner,
than Mr. Peggotty. His whole family, if I may so express it, were cleared
for action. I found Mrs. Micawber in the closest and most uncompromising
of bonnets, made fast under the chin; and in a shawl which tied her
up (as I had been tied up, when my aunt first received me) like a bundle,
and was secured behind at the waist, in a strong knot. Miss Micawber
I found made snug for stormy weather, in the same manner; with nothing
superfluous about her. Master Micawber was hardly visible in a Guernsey
