
“Really musical, isn’t it, my dear Copperfield?” said Traddles. “It’s
very agreeable to hear. It quite lights up these old rooms. To an
unfortunate bachelor of a fellow who has lived alone all his life, you know,
it’s positively delicious. It’s charming. Poor things, they have had a
great loss in Sophy – who, I do assure you, Copperfield, is, and ever was,
the dearest girl! – and it gratifies me beyond expression to find them in
such good spirits. The society of girls is a very delightful thing,
Copperfield. It’s not professional, but it’s very delightful.”

Observing that he slightly faltered, and comprehending that in the
goodness of his heart he was fearful of giving me some pain by what he
had said, I expressed my concurrence with a heartiness that evidently
relieved and pleased him greatly.

“But then,” said Traddles, “our domestic arrangements are, to say
the truth, quite unprofessional altogether, my dear Copperfield. Even
Sophy’s being here, is unprofessional. And we have no other place of
abode. We have put to sea in a cockboat, but we are quite prepared
to rough it. And Sophy’s an extraordinary manager! You’ll be surprised
how those girls are stowed away. I am sure I hardly know how
it’s done.”

“Are many of the young ladies with you?” I inquired.

“The eldest, the Beauty is here,” said Traddles, in a low confidential
voice, “Caroline. And Sarah’s here – the one I mentioned to you
as having something the matter with her spine, you know. Immensely
better! And the two youngest that Sophy educated are with us. And
Louisa’s here.”

“Indeed!” cried I.

“Yes,” said Traddles. “Now the whole set – I mean the chambers – is
only three rooms; but Sophy arranges for the girls in the most wonderful
way, and they sleep as comfortably as possible. Three in that room,”
said Traddles, pointing. “Two in that.”

I could not help glancing round, in search of the accommodation
remaining for Mr. and Mrs. Traddles. Traddles understood me.

“Well!” said Traddles, “we are prepared to rough it, as I said just
now; and we {{did}} improvise a bed last week, upon the floor here. But
there’s a little room in the roof – a very nice room, when you’re up there – which
Sophy papered herself, to surprise me; and that’s our room at
present. It’s a capital little gipsey sort of place. There’s quite a view
from it.”

“And you are happily married at last, my dear Traddles!” said I.
“How rejoiced I am!”

“Thank you, my dear Copperfield,” said Traddles, as we shook hands
once more. “Yes, I am as happy as it’s possible to be. There’s your old
friend, you see,” said Traddles, nodding triumphantly at the flower-pot
and stand; “and there’s the table with the marble top! All the other
furniture is plain and serviceable, you perceive. And as to plate, Lord
bless you, we haven’t so much as a tea-spoon.”

“All to be earned?” said I, cheerfully.

“Exactly so,” replied Traddles, “all to be earned. Of course we have
something in the shape of tea-spoons, because we stir our tea. But
they’re Britannia metal.”
