
CHAPTER LX.

AGNES.

My aunt and I, when we were left alone, talked far into the night.
How the emigrants never wrote home, otherwise than cheerfully and hopefully;
how Mr. Micawber had actually remitted divers small sums of
money, on account of those "pecuniary liabilities," in reference to which
he had been so business-like as between man and man; how Janet,
returning into my aunt's service when she came back to Dover, had finally
carried out her renunciation of mankind by entering into wedlock with a
thriving tavern-keeper; and how my aunt had finally set {{her}} seal on the
same great principle, by aiding and abetting the bride, and crowning
the marriage-ceremony with her presence; were among our topics--already
more or less familiar to me through the letters I had had. Mr. Dick, as
usual, was not forgotten. My aunt informed me how he incessantly
occupied himself in copying everything he could lay his hands on, and kept
King Charles the First at a respectful distance by that semblance of
employment; how it was one of the main joys and rewards of her life that
he was free and happy, instead of pining in monotonous restraint; and
how (as a novel general conclusion) nobody but she could ever fully know
what he was.

"And when, Trot," said my aunt, patting the back of my hand, as
we sat in our old way before the fire, "when are you going over to
Canterbury?"

"I shall get a horse, and ride over to-morrow morning, aunt, unless you
will go with me?"

"No!" said my aunt, in her short abrupt way. "I mean to stay
where I am."

Then, I should ride, I said. I could not have come through Canterbury
to-day without stopping, if I had been coming to anyone but her.

She was pleased, but answered, "Tut, Trot; {{my}} old bones would
have kept till to-morrow!" and softly patted my hand again, as I sat
looking thoughtfully at the fire.

Thoughtfully, for I could not be here once more, and so near Agnes,
without the revival of those regrets with which I had so long been occupied.
Softened regrets they might be, teaching me what I had failed to
learn when my younger life was all before me, but not the less regrets.
"Oh, Trot," I seemed to hear my aunt say once more; and I understood
her better now--"Blind, blind, blind!"

We both kept silence for some minutes. When I raised my eyes, I
found that she was steadily observant of me. Perhaps she had followed
the current of my mind; for it seemed to me an easy one to track now,
wilful as it had been once.
