
“And you, Agnes,” I said, by and by. “Tell me of yourself. You
have hardly ever told me of your own life, in all this lapse of time!”

“What should I tell?” she answered, with her radiant smile. “Papa
is well. You see us here, quiet in our own home; our anxieties set at
rest, our home restored to us; and knowing that, dear Trotwood, you
know all.”

“All, Agnes?” said I.

She looked at me, with some fluttering wonder in her face.

“Is there nothing else, Sister?” I said.

Her color, which had just now faded, returned, and faded again. She
smiled; with a quiet sadness, I thought; and shook her head.

I had sought to lead her to what my aunt had hinted at; for, sharply
painful to me as it must be to receive that confidence, I was to discipline
my heart, and do my duty to her. I saw, however, that she was uneasy,
and I let it pass.

“You have much to do, dear Agnes?”

“With my school?” said she, looking up again, in all her bright
composure.

“Yes. It is laborious, is it not?”

“The labor is so pleasant,” she returned, “that it is scarcely grateful in
me to call it by that name.”

“Nothing good is difficult to you,” said I.

Her color came and went once more; and once more, as she bent her
head, I saw the same sad smile.

“You will wait and see papa,” said Agnes, cheerfully, “and pass the
day with us? Perhaps you will sleep in your own room? We always
call it yours.”

I could not do that, having promised to ride back to my aunt’s, at
night; but I would pass the day there, joyfully.

“I must be a prisoner for a little while,” said Agnes, “but here are
the old books, Trotwood, and the old music.”

“Even the old flowers are here,” said I, looking round; “or the
old kinds.”

“I have found a pleasure,” returned Agnes, smiling, “while you have
been absent, in keeping every thing as it used to be when we were
children. For we were very happy then, I think.”

“Heaven knows we were!” said I.

“And every little thing that has reminded me of my brother,” said
Agnes, with her cordial eyes turned cheerfully upon me, “has been a welcome
companion. Even this,” showing me the basket-trifle, full of keys, still
hanging at her side, “seems to jingle a kind of old tune!”

She smiled again, and went out at the door by which she had come.

It was for me to guard this sisterly affection with religious care.
It was all that I had left myself, and it was a treasure. If I once shook
the foundations of the sacred confidence and usage, in virtue of which it
was given to me, it was lost, and could never be recovered. I set this
steadily before myself. The better I loved her, the more it behoved
me never to forget it.

I walked through the streets; and, once more seeing my old adversary
the butcher – now a constable, with his staff hanging up in the shop – went
down to look at the place where I had fought him; and there
