
"Twenty Eight," said a gentleman in spectacles, who had not yet
spoken, "you complained last week, my good fellow, of the cocoa. How
has it been since?"

"I thank you, sir," said Mr. Littimer, "it has been better made. If I
might take the liberty of saying so, sir, I don't think the milk which is
boiled with it is quite genuine; but I am aware, sir, that there is great
adulteration of milk, in London, and that the article in a pure state is
difficult to be obtained."

It appeared to me that the gentleman in spectacles backed his Twenty
Eight against Mr. Creakle's Twenty Seven, for each of them took his own
man in hand.

"What is your state of mind, Twenty Eight?" said the questioner in
spectacles.

"I thank you, sir," returned Mr. Littimer; "I see my follies now, sir.
I am a good deal troubled when I think of the sins of my former companions,
sir; but I trust they may find forgiveness."

"You are quite happy yourself?" said the questioner, nodding
encouragement.

"I am much obliged to you, sir," returned Mr. Littimer. "Perfectly
so."

"Is there anything at all on your mind, now?" said the questioner.
"If so, mention it, Twenty Eight."

"Sir," said Mr. Littimer, without looking up, "if my eyes have not
deceived me, there is a gentleman present who was acquainted with me in
my former life. It may be profitable to that gentleman to know, sir, that
I attribute my past follies, entirely to having lived a thoughtless life in
the service of young men; and to having allowed myself to be led by
them into weaknesses, which I had not the strength to resist. I hope
that gentleman will take warning, sir, and will not be offended at my
freedom. It is for his good. I am conscious of my own past follies.
I hope he may repent of all the wickedness and sin, to which he has been
a party."

I observed that several gentlemen were shading their eyes, each, with
one hand, as if they had just come into church.

"This does you credit, Twenty Eight," returned the questioner.
"I should have expected it of you. Is there anything else?"

"Sir," returned Mr. Littimer, slightly lifting up his eyebrows, but not
his eyes, "there was a young woman who fell into dissolute courses, that
I endeavoured to save, sir, but could not rescue. I beg that gentleman,
if he has it in his power, to inform that young woman from me that I
forgive her her bad conduct towards myself; and that I call her to
repentance--if he will be so good."

"I have no doubt, Twenty Eight," returned the questioner, "that the
gentleman you refer to feels very strongly--as we all must--what you
have so properly said. We will not detain you."

"I thank you, sir," said Mr. Littimer. "Gentlemen, I wish you a
good day, and hoping you and your families will also see your wickedness,
and amend!"

With this, Number Twenty Eight retired, after a glance between him
and Uriah; as if they were not altogether unknown to each other, through
