
"And Emily?" said Agnes and I, both together.

"Em'ly," said he, "arter you left her, ma'am--and I never heerd her
saying of her prayers at night, t'other side the canvas screen, when we
was settled in the Bush, but what I heerd your name--and arter she and
me lost sight of Mas'r Davy, that theer shining sundown--was that low, at
first, that, if she had know'd then what Mas'r Davy kep from us so kind
and thowtful, 'tis my opinion she'd have drooped away. But theer
was some poor folks aboard as had illness among 'em, and she took
care of {{them}}; and theer was the children in our company, and she
took care of {{them}}; and so she got to be busy, and to be doing good, and
that helped her."

"When did she first hear of it?" I asked.

"I kep it from her arter I heerd on't," said Mr. Peggotty, "going
on nigh a year. We was living then in a solitary place, but among
the beautifullest trees, and with the roses a covering our Beein to the
roof. Theer come along one day, when I was out a working on the
land, a traveller from our own Norfolk or Suffolk in England (I doen't
rightly mind which), and of course we took him in, and giv him to eat
and drink, and made him welcome. We all do that, all the colony over.
He'd got an old newspaper with him, and some other account in print of
the storm. That's how she know'd it. When I come home at night, I
found she know'd it."

He dropped his voice as he said these words, and the gravity I so well
remembered overspread his face.

"Did it change her much?" we asked.

"Aye, for a good long time," he said, shaking his head; "if not to this
present hour. But I think the solitoode done her good. And she had a
deal to mind in the way of poultry and the like, and minded of it, and
come through. I wonder," he said thoughtfully, "if you could see my
Em'ly now, Mas'r Davy, whether you'd know her!"

"Is she so altered?" I inquired.

"I doen't know. I see her ev'ry day, and doen't know; but, odd-times,
I have thowt so. A slight figure," said Mr. Peggotty, looking at
the fire, "kiender worn; soft, sorrowful, blue eyes; a delicate face; a
pritty head, leaning a little down; a quiet voice and way--timid a'most.
That's Em'ly!"

We silently observed him as he sat, still looking at the fire.

"Some thinks," he said, "as her affection was ill-bestowed; some, as
her marriage was broke off by death. No one knows how 'tis. She
might have married well, a mort of times, 'but, uncle,' she says to me,
'that's gone for ever.' Cheerful along with me; retired when others is
by; fond of going any distance fur to teach a child, or fur to tend a sick
person, or fur to do some kindness tow'rds a young girl's wedding (and
she's done a many, but has never seen one); fondly loving of her uncle;
patient; liked by young and old; sowt out by all that has any trouble.
That's Em'ly!"

He drew his hand across his face, and with a half-suppressed sigh looked
up from the fire.

"Is Martha with you yet?" I asked.

"Martha," he replied "got married, Mas'r Davy, in the second year.
