and winks, "Trotwood, you will be glad to hear that I shall finish the
Memorial when I have nothing else to do, and that your aunt's the most
extraordinary woman in the world, sir!"

Who is this bent lady, supporting herself by a stick, and showing me a
countenance in which there are some traces of old pride and beauty, feebly
contending with a querulous, imbecile, fretful wandering of the mind? She
is in a garden; and near her stands a sharp, dark, withered woman, with
a white scar on her lip. Let me hear what they say.

"Rosa, I have forgotten this gentleman's name."

Rosa bends over her, and calls to her, "Mr. Copperfield."

"I am glad to see you, sir. I am sorry to observe you are in mourning.
I hope Time will be good to you!"

Her impatient attendant scolds her, tells her I am not in mourning,
bids her look again, tries to rouse her.

"You have seen my son, sir," says the elder lady. "Are you
reconciled?"

Looking fixedly at me, she puts her hand to her forehead, and moans.
Suddenly, she cries, in a terrible voice, "Rosa, come to me. He is dead!"
Rosa, kneeling at her feet, by turns caresses her, and quarrels with her;
now fiercely telling her, "I loved him better than you ever did!" – now
soothing her to sleep on her breast, like a sick child. Thus I leave them;
thus I always find them; thus they wear their time away, from year to
year.

What ship comes sailing home from India, and what English lady is
this, married to a growling old Scotch Cr[oe]sus with great flaps of ears.
Can this be Julia Mills?

Indeed it is Julia Mills, peevish and fine, with a black man to carry
cards and letters to her on a golden salver, and a copper-colored woman in
linen, with a bright handkerchief round her head, to serve her Tiffin in her
dressing-room. But Julia keeps no diary in these days; never sings
Affection's Dirge; eternally quarrels with the old Scotch Cr[oe]sus, who is
a sort of yellow bear with a tanned hide. Julia is steeped in money to the
throat, and talks and thinks of nothing else. I liked her better in the
Desert of Sahara.

Or perhaps this is the Desert of Sahara! For, though Julia has a stately
house, and mighty company, and sumptuous dinners every day, I see no
green growth near her; nothing that can ever come to fruit or flower.
What Julia calls "society," I see; among it Mr. Jack Maldon, from his
Patent Place, sneering at the hand that gave it him, and speaking to me,
of the Doctor, as "so charmingly antique." But when society is the
name for such hollow gentlemen and ladies, Julia, and when its breeding
is professed indifference to everything that can advance or can retard
mankind, I think we must have lost ourselves in that same Desert of
Sahara, and had better find the way out.

And lo, the Doctor, always our good friend, laboring at his Dictionary
(somewhere about the letter D), and happy in his home and wife.
Also the Old Soldier, on a considerably reduced footing, and by no means
so influential as in days of yore!

Working at his chambers in the Temple, with a busy aspect, and his
